=head1 NAME
X<reference> X<pointer> X<data structure> X<structure> X<struct>

=begin original

perlref - Perl references and nested data structures

=end original

perlref - Perl의 리퍼런스와 중복된 데이터 구조

=head1 NOTE

(주의)

=begin original

This is complete documentation about all aspects of references.
For a shorter, tutorial introduction to just the essential features,
see L<perlreftut>.

=end original

이 문서는 리퍼런스에 관한 것입니다.
튜토리얼에 관해서는 L<perlrefut>를 참조해주세요.

=head1 DESCRIPTION

=begin original

Before release 5 of Perl it was difficult to represent complex data
structures, because all references had to be symbolic--and even then
it was difficult to refer to a variable instead of a symbol table entry.
Perl now not only makes it easier to use symbolic references to variables,
but also lets you have "hard" references to any piece of data or code.
Any scalar may hold a hard reference.  Because arrays and hashes contain
scalars, you can now easily build arrays of arrays, arrays of hashes,
hashes of arrays, arrays of hashes of functions, and so on.

=end original

Perl 5릴리즈 이전에서는 모든 리퍼런스는 심볼릭이 아니면 안되었기 때문에,
복잡한 데이터 구조를 표현하는 것이 곤란했었습니다.
그리고 심볼릭 테이블의 엔트리가 아닌 변수를 참ㅗ하고 싶다고 생각할 때에도
곤란했습니다.
Perl 은 심볼릭리퍼런스를 변수로써 사용하는 것을 간단하게 한 것 뿐만 아니라,
임의의 데이터에 대해 "하드" 리퍼런스를 가지는 것도 가능했었습니다.
임의의 스칼라는 하드 리퍼런스를 가질 수 있습니다.
배열과 해쉬는 스칼라에서 구성되어있기에 배열의 배열, 해쉬의 배열,
배열의 해쉬, 함수의 해쉬의 배열 등을 간단하게 구성할 수 있을 것입니다.

=begin original

Hard references are smart--they keep track of reference counts for you,
automatically freeing the thing referred to when its reference count goes
to zero.  (Reference counts for values in self-referential or
cyclic data structures may not go to zero without a little help; see
L<perlobj/"Two-Phased Garbage Collection"> for a detailed explanation.)
If that thing happens to be an object, the object is destructed.  See
L<perlobj> for more about objects.  (In a sense, everything in Perl is an
object, but we usually reserve the word for references to objects that
have been officially "blessed" into a class package.)

=end original

하드 리퍼런스는 똑똑하게 실제로 참조된 수를 관리하며, 그 수가
0이 되면 자동적으로 해방을 수행합니다.
(자기 참조나 순환 데이터에 있는 값에 대한 참조카운터는,
간단한 조작없이는 0가 되지 않습니다.
자세한 내용은 L<perlobj/"Two-Phased Garbage Collection"> 을 참조해주세요)
그 것이 오브젝트일 때에는 파괴자가 동작합니다.
오브젝트에 대해서 보다 자세한 것은 L<perlobj> 를 참조해주세요.
(어떤 의미에서는, Perl 의 모든 것이 오브젝트이지만, 일반적으로는
클래스 패키지 안에서 공식적으로 bless 된 것의 리퍼런스에 대해서
이 용어를 사용합니다)

=begin original

Symbolic references are names of variables or other objects, just as a
symbolic link in a Unix filesystem contains merely the name of a file.
The C<*glob> notation is something of a symbolic reference.  (Symbolic
references are sometimes called "soft references", but please don't call
them that; references are confusing enough without useless synonyms.)
X<reference, symbolic> X<reference, soft>
X<symbolic reference> X<soft reference>

=end original

UNIX 파일 시스템 상에서의 심볼릭링크가 간단히 파일의 이름을
가지는 것처럼, 심볼릭리퍼런스는 변수의 이름을 가집니다.
C<*glob> 기법은, 심볼릭리퍼런스의 종류 중 하나입니다.
(심볼릭 리퍼런스는 한때 "소프트 리퍼런스"라 불리었지만,
그렇게 부르지 말아주세요. 리퍼런스는 동의어를 사용하지 않음으로서
혼란을 예방할 수 있기 때문입니다)
X<reference, symbolic> X<reference, soft>
X<symbolic reference> X<soft reference>

=begin original

In contrast, hard references are more like hard links in a Unix file
system: They are used to access an underlying object without concern for
what its (other) name is.  When the word "reference" is used without an
adjective, as in the following paragraph, it is usually talking about a
hard reference.
X<reference, hard> X<hard reference>

=end original

대조적으로, 하드 리퍼런스는 UNIX의 파일시스템 상의 하드링크와 비슷합니다.
하드 링크는 그것이 어떤 이름이든 기초가 되는 오브젝트에 접근하기 위해
사용합니다.
아래에 있는 "리퍼런스"라고 하는 말을 형용없이 사용한 경우,
일반적으로는 하드 리퍼런스를 말합니다.
X<reference, hard> X<hard reference>

=begin original

References are easy to use in Perl.  There is just one overriding
principle: Perl does no implicit referencing or dereferencing.  When a
scalar is holding a reference, it always behaves as a simple scalar.  It
doesn't magically start being an array or hash or subroutine; you have to
tell it explicitly to do so, by dereferencing it.

=end original

Perl 에서 리퍼런스를 사용하는 것은 꽤 간단합니다.
원래의 오버라이드가 하나있을 뿐입니다.
Perl 은 리퍼런스(referencing)이나 디리퍼런스(dereferencing) 을
암묵적으로 사용하는 것은 아닙니다.
스칼라가 리퍼런스를 가지고 있을 때, 그것은 항상 단순한 스칼라로써
행동합니다.
맘대로 배열이나, 해쉬, 서브루틴으로써 행동하는 것은 아닙니다.
디리퍼런스를 하는 것에 의해, 자신이 명시적으로 Perl에 알릴 필요가
있습니다.

=head2 Making References
X<reference, creation> X<referencing>

(리퍼런스 만들기)

=begin original

References can be created in several ways.

=end original

리퍼런스는 몇가지의 방법으로 구축할 수 있습니다.

=over 4

=item 1.
X<\> X<backslash>

=begin original

By using the backslash operator on a variable, subroutine, or value.
(This works much like the & (address-of) operator in C.)  
This typically creates I<another> reference to a variable, because
there's already a reference to the variable in the symbol table.  But
the symbol table reference might go away, and you'll still have the
reference that the backslash returned.  Here are some examples:

=end original

변수, 서브루틴, 값에 백슬래쉬연산자를 사용하는 것에 의해
(이것은 C에서의 & (주소) 연산자와 비슷한 일을 합니다)
이미 심볼릭 테이블에는 변수로의 리퍼런스가 존재하고 있으므로,
이 방법은 I<다른> 리퍼런스를 만드는 것입니다.
그러나, 심볼릭 테이블의 리퍼런스가 없어진다고 해도
백슬래쉬가 반환되거나 리퍼런스가 존재하는 것이 됩니다.
예를 몇개 들어보겠습니다.

    $scalarref = \$foo;
    $arrayref  = \@ARGV;
    $hashref   = \%ENV;
    $coderef   = \&handler;
    $globref   = \*foo;

=begin original

It isn't possible to create a true reference to an IO handle (filehandle
or dirhandle) using the backslash operator.  The most you can get is a
reference to a typeglob, which is actually a complete symbol table entry.
But see the explanation of the C<*foo{THING}> syntax below.  However,
you can still use type globs and globrefs as though they were IO handles.

=end original

백슬래쉬 연산자를 사용해 IO 핸들(파일핸들 혹은 디렉토리핸들)로의
리퍼런스를 생성할 수는 없습니다.
제일 좋게 다루는 리퍼런스는 형GLOB에 대한 리퍼런스(실제로는
심볼릭테이블의 엔트리인)일 것입니다.
기술한 *foo{THING} 구문의 설명을 참조해주세요.
그렇지만, IO 핸들인 것으로써 형GLOB나 형GLOB의 리퍼런스(globref)를
사용할 수도 있습니다.

=item 2.
X<array, anonymous> X<[> X<[]> X<square bracket>
X<bracket, square> X<arrayref> X<array reference> X<reference, array>

=begin original

A reference to an anonymous array can be created using square
brackets:

=end original

이름없는 배열로의 리퍼런스는, 대괄호를 사용해서 만들 수 있습니다.

    $arrayref = [1, 2, ['a', 'b', 'c']];

=begin original

Here we've created a reference to an anonymous array of three elements
whose final element is itself a reference to another anonymous array of three
elements.  (The multidimensional syntax described later can be used to
access this.  For example, after the above, C<< $arrayref->[2][1] >> would have
the value "b".)

=end original

여기에서는 ["이름없는 3개의 요소를 가진 배열" 을 마지막 요소로써 가지는
3개요소의 이름없는 배열]로의 리퍼런스를 만들고 있습니다.
(뒤에 기술할 다차원구문을 사용해, 이것에 접근할 수 있습니다.
예를 들면, 위처럼 한 뒤에는,
C<< $arrayref->[2][1] >> 이 "b"가 됩니다 )

=begin original

Taking a reference to an enumerated list is not the same
as using square brackets--instead it's the same as creating
a list of references!

=end original

열거한 리스트에 대한 리퍼런스를 얻는 것은 대괄호를 사용하는 것과
같지 않습니다.
이것은 리퍼런스의 리ì트를 생성하는 것과 같은 것입니다!

    @list = (\$a, \@b, \%c);
    @list = \($a, @b, %c);	# same thing!

=begin original

As a special case, C<\(@foo)> returns a list of references to the contents
of C<@foo>, not a reference to C<@foo> itself.  Likewise for C<%foo>,
except that the key references are to copies (since the keys are just
strings rather than full-fledged scalars).

=end original

특수한 경우로써, C<\(@foo)> 는 C<@foo> 의 내용으로의 리퍼런스의 리스트를
반환하고, 이것은 C<%foo> 와 비슷하지만, 키의 리퍼런스가 카피에 대한 것인
점이 다릅니다(이것은 키가 완전한 스칼라가 아닌 단순한 문자열이기때문입니다)

=item 3.
X<hash, anonymous> X<{> X<{}> X<curly bracket>
X<bracket, curly> X<brace> X<hashref> X<hash reference> X<reference, hash>

=begin original

A reference to an anonymous hash can be created using curly
brackets:

=end original

이름없는 해쉬로의 리퍼런스는, 중괄호를 사용해 만들 수 있습니다.

    $hashref = {
	'Adam'  => 'Eve',
	'Clyde' => 'Bonnie',
    };

=begin original

Anonymous hash and array composers like these can be intermixed freely to
produce as complicated a structure as you want.  The multidimensional
syntax described below works for these too.  The values above are
literals, but variables and expressions would work just as well, because
assignment operators in Perl (even within local() or my()) are executable
statements, not compile-time declarations.

=end original

이름없는 해쉬와 배열의 생성자는, 복잡한 구조를 만들기때문에 자유롭게
조합할 수 있습니다.
뒤에 기술할 다차원구문은, 그런 것에 대해서도 사용할 수 있습니다.
위의 값은 리터럴이지만, 변수나 식이어도 상관없습니다.
Perl 에서의 대입연산은 (예를 들어 local()이나 my() 안에서도) 컬파일 시의
선언문이 아닌 실행문이기때문입니다.

=begin original

Because curly brackets (braces) are used for several other things
including BLOCKs, you may occasionally have to disambiguate braces at the
beginning of a statement by putting a C<+> or a C<return> in front so
that Perl realizes the opening brace isn't starting a BLOCK.  The economy and
mnemonic value of using curlies is deemed worth this occasional extra
hassle.

=end original

중괄호는, BLOCK 을 시작으로써 다른 것에도 사용할 수 있기 때문에,
열린 괄호가 BLOCK의 시작이 아닌 것을 Perl에게 알리기 위해
구문의 최초의 중괄호의 앞에는 C<+> 나 C<return> 을 붙여서,
애매함을 없애도록 할 필요가 있는 경우가 있습니다.
이 잠깐의 작업은 중괄호의 사용에 관련해서 실제로 사용해보고
기억해 두는 것이 좋을 것입니다.

=begin original

For example, if you wanted a function to make a new hash and return a
reference to it, you have these options:

=end original

예를들면, 새로운 해쉬를 만들어서, 그것으로의 리퍼런스를 반환하는 함수가
필요하지않으면 아래처럼 선택지가 있습니다.

    sub hashem {        { @_ } }   # silently wrong
    sub hashem {       +{ @_ } }   # ok
    sub hashem { return { @_ } }   # ok

=begin original

On the other hand, if you want the other meaning, you can do this:

=end original

다른 한편으로는 이렇게 할 수도 있습니다:

    sub showem {        { @_ } }   # ambiguous (currently ok, but may change)
    sub showem {       {; @_ } }   # ok
    sub showem { { return @_ } }   # ok

=begin original

The leading C<+{> and C<{;> always serve to disambiguate
the expression to mean either the HASH reference, or the BLOCK.

=end original

맨앞에 있는 C<+{> 나 C<{;} 가 그 식이 실제로는
해쉬의 리퍼런스인지 블록인지의 애매함을 없애기 위해 있습니다.

=item 4.
X<subroutine, anonymous> X<subroutine, reference> X<reference, subroutine>
X<scope, lexical> X<closure> X<lexical> X<lexical scope>

=begin original

A reference to an anonymous subroutine can be created by using
C<sub> without a subname:

=end original

이릉없는 서브루틴으로의 리퍼런스는, 서브루틴이름이 없는 C<sub> 를 사용해
만들 수 있습니다.

    $coderef = sub { print "Boink!\n" };

=begin original

Note the semicolon.  Except for the code
inside not being immediately executed, a C<sub {}> is not so much a
declaration as it is an operator, like C<do{}> or C<eval{}>.  (However, no
matter how many times you execute that particular line (unless you're in an
C<eval("...")>), $coderef will still have a reference to the I<same>
anonymous subroutine.)

=end original

세미콜론에 주의해주세요.
내부의 코드가 즉각 실행되는 것이 아니라는 것을 제외하면, C<sub{}> 는,
선언이라고 하기보다는 C<do{}> 나 C<eval{}> 과 같은 연산자입니다(하지만,
C<eval("...")> 의 안이 아니면, 몇번이나 그 줄을 실행하려고 해도
$coderef 는, I<동일한> 이름없는 서브루틴을 리퍼런스하는 것이 됩니다).

=begin original

Anonymous subroutines act as closures with respect to my() variables,
that is, variables lexically visible within the current scope.  Closure
is a notion out of the Lisp world that says if you define an anonymous
function in a particular lexical context, it pretends to run in that
context even when it's called outside the context.

=end original

이름없는 서브루틴은 my() 변수에 관련하는 클로져처럼 행동합니다.
즉, 변수는 최근의 스코프 안에서 렉시컬처럼 보입니다.
클로져는 무명함수를 어떤 특정의 렉시컬컨텍스트로 정의한 경우에 혹
그 컨텍스트의 바깥쪽에서 호출되었다고 해도 정의된 때의 컨텍스트로
실행되는 것을 요구하는 Lisp 세계의 개념입니다.

=begin original

In human terms, it's a funny way of passing arguments to a subroutine when
you define it as well as when you call it.  It's useful for setting up
little bits of code to run later, such as callbacks.  You can even
do object-oriented stuff with it, though Perl already provides a different
mechanism to do that--see L<perlobj>.

=end original

알기 쉽게 얘기하면, 서브루틴을 호출할 때처럼 서브루틴을 정의할 때에
인수를 넘기는 기묘한 행동을 말합니다.
이것으로 오브젝트지향적성질을 실현하는 것도 가능합니다.
그렇지만, Perl 은 이미 이것과 다른 구성을 제공하고 있습니다 --
L<perlobj> 를 참조해주세요.

=begin original

You might also think of closure as a way to write a subroutine
template without using eval().  Here's a small example of how
closures work:

=end original

클러져는 eval 없이 서브루틴의 템플레이트를 기술하는 방법으로
생각할 수도 있습니다.
아래 나타내는 것은 클로져가 어떻게 동작하는 가의 예입니다.

    sub newprint {
	my $x = shift;
	return sub { my $y = shift; print "$x, $y!\n"; };
    }
    $h = newprint("Howdy");
    $g = newprint("Greetings");

    # Time passes...

    &$h("world");
    &$g("earthlings");

=begin original

This prints

=end original

출력은 이렇게 됩니다.

    Howdy, world!
    Greetings, earthlings!

=begin original

Note particularly that $x continues to refer to the value passed
into newprint() I<despite> "my $x" having gone out of scope by the
time the anonymous subroutine runs.  That's what a closure is all
about.

=end original

여기서 특히, 이름없는 서브루틴의 실행시에는 "my $x"가 스코프의 밖에 있는 것에
B<상관없이>, $x 가 newprint() 에 건네지는 값을 참조해나가는 것에
주의해주세요.
이것이 클로져의 모든 것입니다.

=begin original

This applies only to lexical variables, by the way.  Dynamic variables
continue to work as they have always worked.  Closure is not something
that most Perl programmers need trouble themselves about to begin with.

=end original

이것은 렉시컬변수에만 적용됩니다.
동적변수는 이것처럼 동작합니다.
클로져는 대부분의 Perl 프로그래머가 쓰기 시작하기 위해
트러블을 떠앉게되어버리는 것이 아닙니다.

=item 5.
X<constructor> X<new>

=begin original

References are often returned by special subroutines called constructors.
Perl objects are just references to a special type of object that happens to know
which package it's associated with.  Constructors are just special
subroutines that know how to create that association.  They do so by
starting with an ordinary reference, and it remains an ordinary reference
even while it's also being an object.  Constructors are often
named new() and called indirectly:

=end original

リファレンスはコンストラクタと呼ばれる特別なサブルーチンが返すようにして
いることが多くなっています。
Perlのオブジェクトは、自分がどのパッケージと関係を持っているかを
知っているものへのリファレンスでしかありません。
コンストラクタは、その関係付けをどのように行なうかを知っているという意味で、
特別なサブルーチンにすぎません。
単なるリファレンスとしてスタートし、オブジェクトといわれている間でも
通常のリファレンスであることに変わりはありません。
コンストラクタは、慣習的に new() と名前を付けられ、間接的に呼び出されます:

    $objref = new Doggie (Tail => 'short', Ears => 'long');

=begin original

But don't have to be:

=end original

以下のようにしてもかまいません。

    $objref   = Doggie->new(Tail => 'short', Ears => 'long');

    use Term::Cap;
    $terminal = Term::Cap->Tgetent( { OSPEED => 9600 });

    use Tk;
    $main    = MainWindow->new();
    $menubar = $main->Frame(-relief              => "raised",
                            -borderwidth         => 2)

=item 6.
X<autovivification>

=begin original

References of the appropriate type can spring into existence if you
dereference them in a context that assumes they exist.  Because we haven't
talked about dereferencing yet, we can't show you any examples yet.

=end original

適切な型のリファレンスはそういったリファレンスが存在するかのような文脈で行うと、
実際に存在するようになります。
デリファレンスについてはまだ話していないので、まだ例を示すことができません。

=item 7.
X<*foo{THING}> X<*>

=begin original

A reference can be created by using a special syntax, lovingly known as
the *foo{THING} syntax.  *foo{THING} returns a reference to the THING
slot in *foo (which is the symbol table entry which holds everything
known as foo).

=end original

リファレンスは、*foo{THING} 構文として知られている
特殊な構文を使って生成することができます。
*foo{THING} はリファレンスを *foo の THING スロット(これは
foo として知られる全てのものを保持するシンボルテーブルのエントリです)に
返します。

    $scalarref = *foo{SCALAR};
    $arrayref  = *ARGV{ARRAY};
    $hashref   = *ENV{HASH};
    $coderef   = *handler{CODE};
    $ioref     = *STDIN{IO};
    $globref   = *foo{GLOB};
    $formatref = *foo{FORMAT};

=begin original

All of these are self-explanatory except for C<*foo{IO}>.  It returns
the IO handle, used for file handles (L<perlfunc/open>), sockets
(L<perlfunc/socket> and L<perlfunc/socketpair>), and directory
handles (L<perlfunc/opendir>).  For compatibility with previous
versions of Perl, C<*foo{FILEHANDLE}> is a synonym for C<*foo{IO}>, though it
is deprecated as of 5.8.0.  If deprecation warnings are in effect, it will warn
of its use.

=end original

これら全ては C<*foo{IO}> を除き、自己説明的です。
ファイルハンドル(L<perlfunc/open>)、ソケット(L<perlfunc/socket> と
L<perlfunc/socketpair>)、ディレクトリハンドル(L<perlfunc/opendir>)
として使われる IO ハンドルを返します。
過去のバージョンの Perl に対する互換性のために、
C<*foo{FILEHANDLE}> は C<*foo{IO}> の同義語ですが、5.8.0 からは
非推奨です。
警告が有効になっていれば、非推奨警告が出ます。

=begin original

C<*foo{THING}> returns undef if that particular THING hasn't been used yet,
except in the case of scalars.  C<*foo{SCALAR}> returns a reference to an
anonymous scalar if $foo hasn't been used yet.  This might change in a
future release.

=end original

C<*foo{THING}> は、スカラの場合を除いた特定の THING がまだ使われてい
ない場合には undef を返します。
C<*foo{SCALAR}> は $foo がまだ使われていなかった場合には
無名スカラへのリファレンスを返します。
これは将来のリリースでは変わる可能性があります。

=begin original

C<*foo{IO}> is an alternative to the C<*HANDLE> mechanism given in
L<perldata/"Typeglobs and Filehandles"> for passing filehandles
into or out of subroutines, or storing into larger data structures.
Its disadvantage is that it won't create a new filehandle for you.
Its advantage is that you have less risk of clobbering more than
you want to with a typeglob assignment.  (It still conflates file
and directory handles, though.)  However, if you assign the incoming
value to a scalar instead of a typeglob as we do in the examples
below, there's no risk of that happening.

=end original

C<*foo{IO}> は、L<perldata/"Typeglobs and Filehandles"> にある
ファイルハンドルをサブルーチンに渡したり、あるいは逆に
サブルーチンから返すために、あるいは大きなデータ構造を格納する
ために用いられる C<*HANDLE> 機構の代替です。
その不利な点は新しいハンドルをあなたのために作り出すことはしないと
いうことです。
有利な点は、型グロブの代入を使うよりも気をつかう必要があまりないということです。
(しかし、これはまだファイルハンドルとディレクトリハンドルを融合します。)
しかし、もし以下の例で行っているように、値を型グロブではなくスカラに
代入すると、起きることに対するリスクはありません。

    splutter(*STDOUT);		# pass the whole glob
    splutter(*STDOUT{IO});	# pass both file and dir handles

    sub splutter {
	my $fh = shift;
	print $fh "her um well a hmmm\n";
    }

    $rec = get_rec(*STDIN);	# pass the whole glob
    $rec = get_rec(*STDIN{IO}); # pass both file and dir handles

    sub get_rec {
	my $fh = shift;
	return scalar <$fh>;
    }

=back

=head2 Using References
X<reference, use> X<dereferencing> X<dereference>

(リファレンスを使う)

=begin original

That's it for creating references.  By now you're probably dying to
know how to use references to get back to your long-lost data.  There
are several basic methods.

=end original

リファレンスの作り方はこれだけです。
ここまでくると、どこか参照のかなたへ行ってしまったデータを取り戻すために、
どうやってリファレンスを使うかを知りたいことでしょう。
基本的な方法がいくつかあります。

=over 4

=item 1.

=begin original

Anywhere you'd put an identifier (or chain of identifiers) as part
of a variable or subroutine name, you can replace the identifier with
a simple scalar variable containing a reference of the correct type:

=end original

変数名やサブルーチン名の一部として識別子を置くところでは、適切な
型のリファレンスを持った単純スカラ変数でその識別子を
置き換えることができます:

    $bar = $$scalarref;
    push(@$arrayref, $filename);
    $$arrayref[0] = "January";
    $$hashref{"KEY"} = "VALUE";
    &$coderef(1,2,3);
    print $globref "output\n";

=begin original

It's important to understand that we are specifically I<not> dereferencing
C<$arrayref[0]> or C<$hashref{"KEY"}> there.  The dereference of the
scalar variable happens I<before> it does any key lookups.  Anything more
complicated than a simple scalar variable must use methods 2 or 3 below.
However, a "simple scalar" includes an identifier that itself uses method
1 recursively.  Therefore, the following prints "howdy".

=end original

$arrayref[0] や $hashref{"KEY"} という形でしているの I<ではない> ことが
大切です。
スカラ変数のデリファレンスは、いかなる key の検索よりも I<前に> 行なわれます。
単純スカラ変数より込み入ったものはすべて、
以下の 2 番か 3 番の方法が採られます。
しかしながら、「単純スカラ」には、この 1 番目の方法を再帰的に使っている
識別子も含まれます。
したがって、以下はは、"howdy" と出力します。

    $refrefref = \\\"howdy";
    print $$$$refrefref;

=item 2.
X<${}> X<@{}> X<%{}>

=begin original

Anywhere you'd put an identifier (or chain of identifiers) as part of a
variable or subroutine name, you can replace the identifier with a
BLOCK returning a reference of the correct type.  In other words, the
previous examples could be written like this:

=end original

変数名やサブルーチン名の一部として識別子を置くところでは、適切な型の
リファレンスを返す BLOCK を伴う識別子で置き換えることができます。
言い換えると、先の例は以下のように書くことができます:

    $bar = ${$scalarref};
    push(@{$arrayref}, $filename);
    ${$arrayref}[0] = "January";
    ${$hashref}{"KEY"} = "VALUE";
    &{$coderef}(1,2,3);
    $globref->print("output\n");  # iff IO::Handle is loaded

=begin original

Admittedly, it's a little silly to use the curlies in this case, but
the BLOCK can contain any arbitrary expression, in particular,
subscripted expressions:

=end original

確かにこの場合には中かっこを付けるのはばかげたことかもしれませんが、
BLOCK には任意の式、特に添字を付けた式を入れることができます:

    &{ $dispatch{$index} }(1,2,3);	# call correct routine

=begin original

Because of being able to omit the curlies for the simple case of C<$$x>,
people often make the mistake of viewing the dereferencing symbols as
proper operators, and wonder about their precedence.  If they were,
though, you could use parentheses instead of braces.  That's not the case.
Consider the difference below; case 0 is a short-hand version of case 1,
I<not> case 2:

=end original

単純な <$$x> の場合には中かっこが省略できるので、シンボルの
デリファレンスを適当な演算子のように受け取って、その優先順位はどのくらいかと
悩む人があります。
しかし、もし演算子であれば、中かっこの代わりに、
普通の括弧が使えることでしょう。
そうではありません。
以下の違いを考えてみてください。
CASE 0 は、CASE 1 を短くしたものであり、CASE 2 を
短くしたものでは B<ありません>:

    $$hashref{"KEY"}   = "VALUE";	# CASE 0
    ${$hashref}{"KEY"} = "VALUE";	# CASE 1
    ${$hashref{"KEY"}} = "VALUE";	# CASE 2
    ${$hashref->{"KEY"}} = "VALUE";	# CASE 3

=begin original

Case 2 is also deceptive in that you're accessing a variable
called %hashref, not dereferencing through $hashref to the hash
it's presumably referencing.  That would be case 3.

=end original

CASE 2 もまた間違えやすいもので、%hashref という変数をアクセスするものです。
$hashref を仲介して、それが指すことになっているハッシュを
デリファレンスしているものではありません。
それは、CASE 3 です。

=item 3.
X<autovivification> X<< -> >> X<arrow>

=begin original

Subroutine calls and lookups of individual array elements arise often
enough that it gets cumbersome to use method 2.  As a form of
syntactic sugar, the examples for method 2 may be written:

=end original

配列の個々の要素を使う場合が増えると、2 番の方法を使うのが
煩わしくなってきます。
構文上の打開策として上記の 2 行は、以下のように書けます:

    $arrayref->[0] = "January";   # Array element
    $hashref->{"KEY"} = "VALUE";  # Hash element
    $coderef->(1,2,3);            # Subroutine call

=begin original

The left side of the arrow can be any expression returning a reference,
including a previous dereference.  Note that C<$array[$x]> is I<not> the
same thing as C<< $array->[$x] >> here:

=end original

矢印の左側には先行するデリファレンスを含めて、リファレンスを返す任意の式が
書けます(C<$array[$x]> は、C<< $array->[$x] >> と同じでは I<ありません>)。

    $array[$x]->{"foo"}->[0] = "January";

=begin original

This is one of the cases we mentioned earlier in which references could
spring into existence when in an lvalue context.  Before this
statement, C<$array[$x]> may have been undefined.  If so, it's
automatically defined with a hash reference so that we can look up
C<{"foo"}> in it.  Likewise C<< $array[$x]->{"foo"} >> will automatically get
defined with an array reference so that we can look up C<[0]> in it.
This process is called I<autovivification>.

=end original

これが、先の左辺値コンテキストで用いるとリファレンスが
存在するようになるというケースの一つです。
この文以前には、C<$array[$x]> は未定義かもしれません。
その場合自動的にハッシュリファレンスと定義されて、C<{"foo"}> が
検索できるようになります。
同じように  C<< $array[$x]->{"foo"} >> が配列リファレンスで定義されるので、
C<[0]> をそこで探すことができます。
このプロセスは I<自動有効化> (autovivification) と呼ばれます。

=begin original

One more thing here.  The arrow is optional I<between> brackets
subscripts, so you can shrink the above down to

=end original

もう一つ。矢印は、括弧付きの添字の I<間> では、省略することができますので、
上の例は、以下のように書けます:

    $array[$x]{"foo"}[0] = "January";

=begin original

Which, in the degenerate case of using only ordinary arrays, gives you
multidimensional arrays just like C's:

=end original

通常の配列だけを使うように限定すれば、ちょうど C の多次元配列のように
使うことができます:

    $score[$x][$y][$z] += 42;

=begin original

Well, okay, not entirely like C's arrays, actually.  C doesn't know how
to grow its arrays on demand.  Perl does.

=end original

ああ、そうだ、実際には全く C の配列と同じという訳ではありません。
C では、必要に応じて配列を大きくするなどということはできません。
Perl では、それができます。

=item 4.
X<encapsulation>

=begin original

If a reference happens to be a reference to an object, then there are
probably methods to access the things referred to, and you should probably
stick to those methods unless you're in the class package that defines the
object's methods.  In other words, be nice, and don't violate the object's
encapsulation without a very good reason.  Perl does not enforce
encapsulation.  We are not totalitarians here.  We do expect some basic
civility though.

=end original

リファレンスが、オブジェクトに対するものである場合には、参照されるものを
アクセスするためのメソッドがあるはずで、オブジェクトのメソッドを
定義するクラスパッケージ内でなければ、そのメソッドを使うように
した方が良いでしょう。
言い換えると、良識をもって、特別正当な理由がない限り、
オブジェクトのカプセル化を反古にしてはいけないということです。
Perl は、カプセル化を強要したりはしません。
私達は、全体主義者ではありません。
ただ、なにがしかの基本的な節度を期待しています。

=back

=begin original

Using a string or number as a reference produces a symbolic reference,
as explained above.  Using a reference as a number produces an
integer representing its storage location in memory.  The only
useful thing to be done with this is to compare two references
numerically to see whether they refer to the same location.
X<reference, numeric context>

=end original

文字列や数値をリファレンスとして使うと、上述したようにシンボリック
リファレンスを生成します。
リファレンスを数値として使うと、メモリ内のストレージの位置の
整数表現を生成します。
これを利用して便利な唯一の状況は、二つのリファレンスを数値として
比較することで、同じ場所を参照しているかどうかを調べる場合です。
X<reference, numeric context>

    if ($ref1 == $ref2) {  # cheap numeric compare of references
	print "refs 1 and 2 refer to the same thing\n";
    }

=begin original

Using a reference as a string produces both its referent's type,
including any package blessing as described in L<perlobj>, as well
as the numeric address expressed in hex.  The ref() operator returns
just the type of thing the reference is pointing to, without the
address.  See L<perlfunc/ref> for details and examples of its use.
X<reference, string context>

=end original

リファレンスを文字列として使うと、参照しているものの型
(L<perlobj> で記述しているように、bless しているパッケージを含みます)と、
16 進数で表現された数値アドレスの両方を生成します。
ref() 演算子は、アドレス抜きで、リファレンスが示しているものの型だけを
返します。
この使い方の詳細と例については L<perlfunc/ref> を参照してください。
X<reference, string context>

=begin original

The bless() operator may be used to associate the object a reference
points to with a package functioning as an object class.  See L<perlobj>.

=end original

bless() 演算子は、オブジェクトをオブジェクトクラスとして機能する
パッケージと結び付けるために使うことができます。
L<perlobj> を参照してください。

=begin original

A typeglob may be dereferenced the same way a reference can, because
the dereference syntax always indicates the type of reference desired.
So C<${*foo}> and C<${\$foo}> both indicate the same scalar variable.

=end original

デリファレンスの構文では常に目的とするリファレンスの型を
示すことができますので、型グロブをリファレンスと同じように
デリファレンスすることができます。
つまり、C<${*foo}> と C<${\$foo}> は、どちらも同じスカラ変数を
示すことになります。

=begin original

Here's a trick for interpolating a subroutine call into a string:

=end original

次の例に示すのは、文字列にサブルーチン呼び出しを埋め込む仕掛けです:

    print "My sub returned @{[mysub(1,2,3)]} that time.\n";

=begin original

The way it works is that when the C<@{...}> is seen in the double-quoted
string, it's evaluated as a block.  The block creates a reference to an
anonymous array containing the results of the call to C<mysub(1,2,3)>.  So
the whole block returns a reference to an array, which is then
dereferenced by C<@{...}> and stuck into the double-quoted string. This
chicanery is also useful for arbitrary expressions:

=end original

ダブルクォートで囲まれた文字列中に C<@{...}> が見つかると、その
文字列はブロックとして評価されます。
ブロックでは、C<mysub(1,2,3)> の呼び出しを実行し、その結果に対する
無名配列へのリファレンスが作られます。
つまり、ブロック全体では、配列へのリファレンスを返すこととなり、
C<@{...}> でデリファレンスされた後、ダブルクォートで囲まれた文字列の中に、
埋め込まれることになります。
このごまかしははっきりしない式にも有用です:

    print "That yields @{[$n + 5]} widgets\n";

=head2 Symbolic references
X<reference, symbolic> X<reference, soft>
X<symbolic reference> X<soft reference>

(シンボリックリファレンス)

=begin original

We said that references spring into existence as necessary if they are
undefined, but we didn't say what happens if a value used as a
reference is already defined, but I<isn't> a hard reference.  If you
use it as a reference, it'll be treated as a symbolic
reference.  That is, the value of the scalar is taken to be the I<name>
of a variable, rather than a direct link to a (possibly) anonymous
value.

=end original

リファレンスはもし未定義であれば必要に応じて存在するようになると言いましたが、
もしリファレンスとして使われた値が既に定義されていたときにはどのように
なるのか示していませんでした。
これはハードリファレンスでは I<ありません>。
リファレンスとして使ったならそれはシンボリックリファレンスとして扱われます。
つまり、スカラの値は(おそらく)無名の値への直接のリンクではなく、
変数の I<名前> として扱われます。

=begin original

People frequently expect it to work like this.  So it does.

=end original

そのように働くと思われていることが多いものです。
ですからそう動作するのです。

    $name = "foo";
    $$name = 1;			# Sets $foo
    ${$name} = 2;		# Sets $foo
    ${$name x 2} = 3;		# Sets $foofoo
    $name->[0] = 4;		# Sets $foo[0]
    @$name = ();		# Clears @foo
    &$name();			# Calls &foo() (as in Perl 4)
    $pack = "THAT";
    ${"${pack}::$name"} = 5;	# Sets $THAT::foo without eval

=begin original

This is powerful, and slightly dangerous, in that it's possible
to intend (with the utmost sincerity) to use a hard reference, and
accidentally use a symbolic reference instead.  To protect against
that, you can say

=end original

これは強力で、かつ多少危険でもあります。
(最大限の注意をはらって) ハードリファレンスを使おうとした場合にも、
誤ってシンボリックリファレンスを使ってしまうような場合があるからです。
これを防止するには、

    use strict 'refs';

=begin original

and then only hard references will be allowed for the rest of the enclosing
block.  An inner block may countermand that with

=end original

と書いて、囲っているブロック内の残りの部分ではハードリファレンスのみが
許されるようにすることができます。
内側のブロックでは、以下のように書いて打ち消すこともできます:

    no strict 'refs';

=begin original

Only package variables (globals, even if localized) are visible to
symbolic references.  Lexical variables (declared with my()) aren't in
a symbol table, and thus are invisible to this mechanism.  For example:

=end original

シンボリックリファレンスでは、パッケージ変数(局所化されていたとしても
グローバル)だけを見ることができます。
(my() で宣言した) 静的なローカル変数は、シンボルテーブルに
存在しないのでシンボリックリファレンスでは参照することができません。
たとえば:

    local $value = 10;
    $ref = "value";
    {
	my $value = 20;
	print $$ref;
    }

=begin original

This will still print 10, not 20.  Remember that local() affects package
variables, which are all "global" to the package.

=end original

これは、20 ではなく、10 と出力します。
local() は、パッケージで「グローバルな」、パッケージ変数に
影響するものです。

=head2 Not-so-symbolic references

(あまりシンボリックではないリファレンス)

=begin original

A new feature contributing to readability in perl version 5.001 is that the
brackets around a symbolic reference behave more like quotes, just as they
always have within a string.  That is,

=end original

perl のバージョン 5.001 で、中かっこに囲まれたシンボリックリファレンスが
よりクォートのように、ちょうどそれが文字列の中にあるかのように
振る舞うという新たな機能が読みやすさのために追加されました。

    $push = "pop on ";
    print "${push}over";

=begin original

has always meant to print "pop on over", even though push is
a reserved word.  This has been generalized to work the same outside
of quotes, so that

=end original

これは push が予約語であるにも関らず常に“pop on over”となります。
これはクォートの外であっても同様です。
ですから、

    print ${push} . "over";

=begin original

and even

=end original

や

    print ${ push } . "over";

=begin original

will have the same effect.  (This would have been a syntax error in
Perl 5.000, though Perl 4 allowed it in the spaceless form.)  This
construct is I<not> considered to be a symbolic reference when you're
using strict refs:

=end original

でさえも同じ効果となります。
(これは Perl 4 が 空白無しの形式を許しているにも関らず、
Perl 5.000 では構文エラーとなります)。
この構造はあなたが strict refs を使っているときに、
シンボリックリファレンスであることを考慮 I<していません>。

    use strict 'refs';
    ${ bareword };	# Okay, means $bareword.
    ${ "bareword" };	# Error, symbolic reference.

=begin original

Similarly, because of all the subscripting that is done using single
words, we've applied the same rule to any bareword that is used for
subscripting a hash.  So now, instead of writing

=end original

同様に添え字付けのすべてが単一の語で行われているので、
同じルールをハッシュに対する添え字付けに使われる
任意の裸の単語に適用します。
ですから、

    $array{ "aaa" }{ "bbb" }{ "ccc" }

=begin original

you can write just

=end original

の代わりに以下のように書けて:

    $array{ aaa }{ bbb }{ ccc }

=begin original

and not worry about whether the subscripts are reserved words.  In the
rare event that you do wish to do something like

=end original

そして添え字が予約語であるかどうかを心配することはありません。
以下のようなことがしたいという珍しい場合には:

    $array{ shift }

=begin original

you can force interpretation as a reserved word by adding anything that
makes it more than a bareword:

=end original

裸の単語でないようにさせる何かを追加することで予約語であるように
強制的に解釈させることができます。

    $array{ shift() }
    $array{ +shift }
    $array{ shift @_ }

=begin original

The C<use warnings> pragma or the B<-w> switch will warn you if it
interprets a reserved word as a string.
But it will no longer warn you about using lowercase words, because the
string is effectively quoted.

=end original

C<use warnings> プラグマや B<-w> スイッチは文字列が予約語として
解釈されたときには警告を発します。
しかし、あなたが小文字だけからなる単語を使った場合にはもはや警告されません。
なぜなら文字列は事実上クォートされているからです。

=head2 Pseudo-hashes: Using an array as a hash
X<pseudo-hash> X<pseudo hash> X<pseudohash>

(擬似ハッシュ: 配列をハッシュとして使う)

=begin original

B<WARNING>:  This section describes an experimental feature.  Details may
change without notice in future versions.

=end original

B<警告>: このセクションは実験的機能を説明しています。
将来のバージョンにおいて、細かな点は予告なしに変更される可能性があります。

=begin original

B<NOTE>: The current user-visible implementation of pseudo-hashes
(the weird use of the first array element) is deprecated starting from
Perl 5.8.0 and will be removed in Perl 5.10.0, and the feature will be
implemented differently.  Not only is the current interface rather ugly,
but the current implementation slows down normal array and hash use quite
noticeably.  The 'fields' pragma interface will remain available.

=end original

B<注意>: 現在のユーザー見える形の擬似ハッシュの実装(配列の最初の要素を
奇妙な形で使うもの)は Perl 5.8.0 から非推奨となりました; Perl 5.10.0 からは
取り除かれて、この機能は別の方法で実装される予定です。
現在のインターフェースは醜いだけでなく、現在の実装は通常の配列とハッシュの
利用をかなり目立つ形で遅くしています。
"fields" プラグマインターフェースは利用可能なまま残ります。

=begin original

Beginning with release 5.005 of Perl, you may use an array reference
in some contexts that would normally require a hash reference.  This
allows you to access array elements using symbolic names, as if they
were fields in a structure.

=end original

5.005 のリリースから、通常ハッシュリファレンスが要求されるような
コンテキストの一部において配列リファレンスが使えるようになりました。
これはそれが構造体のフィールドであるかのごとく
シンボル名を使った配列要素のアクセスを可能にします。

=begin original

For this to work, the array must contain extra information.  The first
element of the array has to be a hash reference that maps field names
to array indices.  Here is an example:

=end original

これを行うためには、配列は余計な情報を持たなければなりません。
配列の最初の要素はフィールド名を配列の添え字にマッピングする
ハッシュリファレンスでなければなりません。
例を挙げましょう:

    $struct = [{foo => 1, bar => 2}, "FOO", "BAR"];

    $struct->{foo};  # same as $struct->[1], i.e. "FOO"
    $struct->{bar};  # same as $struct->[2], i.e. "BAR"

    keys %$struct;   # will return ("foo", "bar") in some order
    values %$struct; # will return ("FOO", "BAR") in same some order

    while (my($k,$v) = each %$struct) {
       print "$k => $v\n";
    }

=begin original

Perl will raise an exception if you try to access nonexistent fields.
To avoid inconsistencies, always use the fields::phash() function
provided by the C<fields> pragma.

=end original

存在しないフィールドに対してアクセスしようとした場合、Perl は
例外を発生します。
矛盾を避けるために、C<fields> プラグマで提供される fields::phash() 関数を
常に使ってください。

    use fields;
    $pseudohash = fields::phash(foo => "FOO", bar => "BAR");

=begin original

For better performance, Perl can also do the translation from field
names to array indices at compile time for typed object references.
See L<fields>.

=end original

パフォーマンスを向上させるために、Perl は型付けされた
オブジェクトリファレンスのためのフィールド名から配列添え字への変換を
コンパイル時に行ってしまうこともできます。
L<fields> を参照してください。

=begin original

There are two ways to check for the existence of a key in a
pseudo-hash.  The first is to use exists().  This checks to see if the
given field has ever been set.  It acts this way to match the behavior
of a regular hash.  For instance:

=end original

擬似ハッシュでキーの存在をチェックする方法は 2 つあります。
1 つめは exists() を使うことです。
このチェックは、指定されたフィールドに値がセットされたことがあるかどうかが
わかります。
これはこの意味で通常のハッシュの振る舞いと一致します。
例えば:

    use fields;
    $phash = fields::phash([qw(foo bar pants)], ['FOO']);
    $phash->{pants} = undef;

    print exists $phash->{foo};    # true, 'foo' was set in the declaration
    print exists $phash->{bar};    # false, 'bar' has not been used.
    print exists $phash->{pants};  # true, your 'pants' have been touched

=begin original

The second is to use exists() on the hash reference sitting in the
first array element.  This checks to see if the given key is a valid
field in the pseudo-hash.

=end original

2 つめは、最初の配列要素にあるハッシュリファレンスに exists() を
使うことです。
これは、キーが擬似ハッシュの有効なフィールドであるかをチェックします。

    print exists $phash->[0]{bar};	# true, 'bar' is a valid field
    print exists $phash->[0]{shoes};# false, 'shoes' can't be used

=begin original

delete() on a pseudo-hash element only deletes the value corresponding
to the key, not the key itself.  To delete the key, you'll have to
explicitly delete it from the first hash element.

=end original

擬似ハッシュの要素に対する delete() はキーそのものではなく、キーに対応する
値だけを削除します。
キーを削除するには、最初のハッシュ要素から明示的に削除する必要があります。

    print delete $phash->{foo};     # prints $phash->[1], "FOO"
    print exists $phash->{foo};     # false
    print exists $phash->[0]{foo};  # true, key still exists
    print delete $phash->[0]{foo};  # now key is gone
    print $phash->{foo};            # runtime exception

=head2 Function Templates
X<scope, lexical> X<closure> X<lexical> X<lexical scope>
X<subroutine, nested> X<sub, nested> X<subroutine, local> X<sub, local>

(関数テンプレート)

=begin original

As explained above, an anonymous function with access to the lexical
variables visible when that function was compiled, creates a closure.  It
retains access to those variables even though it doesn't get run until
later, such as in a signal handler or a Tk callback.

=end original

先に説明したように、関数がコンパイルされたときに可視なレキシカル変数に
アクセスする無名関数はクロージャを作ります。
そういった変数に対するアクセスはシグナルハンドラであるとか Tk の
コールバックのように、あとで実行されるときまで保持されてきた値を
取り出します。

=begin original

Using a closure as a function template allows us to generate many functions
that act similarly.  Suppose you wanted functions named after the colors
that generated HTML font changes for the various colors:

=end original

巻数テンプレートとしてクロージャを使うことによって、同じような関数を
たくさん作ることが可能になります。
ここで、あなたが様々色のためにフォントを変更する HTML を生成するような
色の名前のついた関数を必要としているとしましょう:

    print "Be ", red("careful"), "with that ", green("light");

=begin original

The red() and green() functions would be similar.  To create these,
we'll assign a closure to a typeglob of the name of the function we're
trying to build.  

=end original

red() と green() といった関数は似通ったものになります。
これらを作り出すために、作ろうとしている関数の名前の型グロブに
クロージャを代入します。

    @colors = qw(red blue green yellow orange purple violet);
    for my $name (@colors) {
        no strict 'refs';	# allow symbol table manipulation
        *$name = *{uc $name} = sub { "<FONT COLOR='$name'>@_</FONT>" };
    } 

=begin original

Now all those different functions appear to exist independently.  You can
call red(), RED(), blue(), BLUE(), green(), etc.  This technique saves on
both compile time and memory use, and is less error-prone as well, since
syntax checks happen at compile time.  It's critical that any variables in
the anonymous subroutine be lexicals in order to create a proper closure.
That's the reasons for the C<my> on the loop iteration variable.

=end original

これで、それぞれの関数が別個に作成されます。
red(), RED(), blue(), BLUE(), green() のように呼び出すことが可能です。
このテクニックはコンパイル時間とメモリーの使用量を抑え、
同様にエラーを少なくします。
なぜなら、構文チェックはコンパイル時に行われるからです。
無名関数にある変数はすべて、適切なクロージャを作成するために重要なものです。
これはループの繰り返し変数に対する C<my> の理由と同じです。

=begin original

This is one of the only places where giving a prototype to a closure makes
much sense.  If you wanted to impose scalar context on the arguments of
these functions (probably not a wise idea for this particular example),
you could have written it this way instead:

=end original

これはクロージャにプロトタイプを与えるための場所の一つでもあります。
生成する関数の引数にスカラコンテキストを与えようとするなら
(おそらくはこの例に関してはあまり賢いやり方ではないでしょう)、
以下のように記述することができます:

    *$name = sub ($) { "<FONT COLOR='$name'>$_[0]</FONT>" };

=begin original

However, since prototype checking happens at compile time, the assignment
above happens too late to be of much use.  You could address this by
putting the whole loop of assignments within a BEGIN block, forcing it
to occur during compilation.

=end original

しかしながら、プロトタイプの検査はコンパイル時に行われるので、
この代入文はプロトタイプを使うには遅すぎるのです。
代入文のループ全体を BEGIN ブロックに置いてすべてを
コンパイル時に行うようにすることでこれに対処することができます。

=begin original

Access to lexicals that change over type--like those in the C<for> loop
above--only works with closures, not general subroutines.  In the general
case, then, named subroutines do not nest properly, although anonymous
ones do. Thus is because named subroutines are created (and capture any
outer lexicals) only once at compile time, whereas anonymous subroutines
get to capture each time you execute the 'sub' operator.  If you are
accustomed to using nested subroutines in other programming languages with
their own private variables, you'll have to work at it a bit in Perl.  The
intuitive coding of this type of thing incurs mysterious warnings about
"will not stay shared".  For example, this won't work:

=end original

型を変更するようなレキシカル変数に対するアクセス -- 例えば先の例の
C<for> ループのようなもの -- はクロージャに置いてのみ動作し、
一般的なサブルーチンでは動作しません。
一般的なケースでは、名前付きサブルーチンは適切にネストすることはなく、
(ネストするものが)無名関数であっても同じです。
これは、名前つきのサブルーチンはコンパイル時に一度だけ作成される
(そして外側のレキシカルに捕捉される)のに対し、無名サブルーチンは
'sub' 演算子が実行される毎に捕捉されるからです。
他のプログラミング言語にあるような、固有のプライベート変数を持った
ネストしたサブルーチンを使いたいのであれば、Perl ではちょっと
手間がかかります。
直感的にこうだと思うようなコーディングは、不可思議な警告
"will not stay shared" となるでしょう。
例を挙げると、以下の例はうまく動作しません:

    sub outer {
        my $x = $_[0] + 35;
        sub inner { return $x * 19 }   # WRONG
        return $x + inner();
    }

=begin original

A work-around is the following:

=end original

以下のようにするとうまくいきます:

    sub outer {
        my $x = $_[0] + 35;
        local *inner = sub { return $x * 19 };
        return $x + inner();
    }

=begin original

Now inner() can only be called from within outer(), because of the
temporary assignments of the closure (anonymous subroutine).  But when
it does, it has normal access to the lexical variable $x from the scope
of outer().

=end original

これで、inner() は outer() の中からのみ呼び出せるようになります。
なぜなら、クロージャ(無名関数)の一時変数に対する代入があるからです。
しかしこれを行ったとき、outer() のスコープからレキシカル変数 $x の
アクセスは通常通りです。

=begin original

This has the interesting effect of creating a function local to another
function, something not normally supported in Perl.

=end original

これは、通常 Perl ではサポートされていないような
ある関数にローカルな関数を生成するときの興味深い効果です。

=head1 WARNING
X<reference, string context> X<reference, use as hash key>

(警告)

=begin original

You may not (usefully) use a reference as the key to a hash.  It will be
converted into a string:

=end original

リファレンスをハッシュに対するキーとして使うことはできません。
それは文字列へ変換されてしまいます。

    $x{ \$a } = $a;

=begin original

If you try to dereference the key, it won't do a hard dereference, and
you won't accomplish what you're attempting.  You might want to do something
more like

=end original

キーをデリファレンスしようとするのであれば、それは
ハードリファレンスには働きません。
そして、あなたがしようとしたことはできないでしょう。
次のような書き方をしたいと思うかもしれませんが、

    $r = \@a;
    $x{ $r } = $r;

=begin original

And then at least you can use the values(), which will be
real refs, instead of the keys(), which won't.

=end original

動作しない keys() の代わりに、少なくとも本当のリファレンスとなる
values() を使うことができます。

=begin original

The standard Tie::RefHash module provides a convenient workaround to this.

=end original

標準モジュール Tie::RefHash はこれを扱いやすくするための
手段を提供しています。

=head1 SEE ALSO

=begin original

Besides the obvious documents, source code can be instructive.
Some pathological examples of the use of references can be found
in the F<t/op/ref.t> regression test in the Perl source directory.

=end original

ドキュメントの他に、ソースコードもためになります。
幾つかのリファレンスを使っている病理学的なサンプルは Perl の
ソースディレクトリにある F<t/op/ref.t> という退行テストにあります。

=begin original

See also L<perldsc> and L<perllol> for how to use references to create
complex data structures, and L<perltoot>, L<perlobj>, and L<perlbot>
for how to use them to create objects.

=end original

複雑なデータ構造を生成するためのリファレンスの使い方は
L<perldsc> と L<perllol> を参照してください。
オブジェクトを生成するためのリファレンスの使い方は
L<perltoot>、L<perlobj>、L<perlbot> を参照してください。

=begin meta

Created: KIMURA Koichi
Updated: Kentaro Shirakata <argrath@ub32.org>

=end meta

