=head1 NAME
X<syntax>

=begin original

perlsyn - Perl syntax

=end original

perlsyn - Perl 의 문법

=head1 DESCRIPTION

=begin original

A Perl program consists of a sequence of declarations and statements
which run from the top to the bottom.  Loops, subroutines and other
control structures allow you to jump around within the code.

=end original

Perl 프로그램은, 선언과 문장으로 구성되며, 위에서 아래로 실행됩니다.
루프, 서브루틴, 그외의 제어기구로 코드의 여러곳으로 점프할 수 있습니다.

=begin original

Perl is a B<free-form> language, you can format and indent it however
you like.  Whitespace mostly serves to separate tokens, unlike
languages like Python where it is an important part of the syntax.

=end original

Perl 은 B<자유서식> 언어이지만, 좋을 대로 고치거나, 인덴트하거나 할 수 있습니다.
공백이 문법의 중요한 요소이며 Python 같은 언어와 달리, 
공백은 대부분 토큰의 분할이 목적입니다.

=begin original

Many of Perl's syntactic elements are B<optional>.  Rather than
requiring you to put parentheses around every function call and
declare every variable, you can often leave such explicit elements off
and Perl will figure out what you meant.  This is known as B<Do What I
Mean>, abbreviated B<DWIM>.  It allows programmers to be B<lazy> and to
code in a style with which they are comfortable.

=end original

Perl 의 다양한 문법요소는 B<생략가능> 입니다.
모든 함수를 괄호로 감싸거나, 모든 변수를 선한하거나 하는 것을
요구하지 않고, 그때그때 그런 명시적인 요소를 넣어두고,
Perl 에게 저자가 의미하고 있는 부분을 발견하게 하는 것이 가능합니다.
이것은 B<Do What I Mean> 이라고 알려져 있고, 이니셜을 따서 B<DWIM>이라고 불리웁니다.
이것에 의해, 프로그래머를 B<게으르게> 만들고, 그들이 편안하다고 생각하는 스타일로
코딩이 가능하게 합니다.

=begin original

Perl B<borrows syntax> and concepts from many languages: awk, sed, C,
Bourne Shell, Smalltalk, Lisp and even English.  Other
languages have borrowed syntax from Perl, particularly its regular
expression extensions.  So if you have programmed in another language
you will see familiar pieces in Perl.  They often work the same, but
see L<perltrap> for information about how they differ.

=end original

Perl 은 awk, sed, C, Bourne Shell, Smalltalk, Lisp, 果ては英語といった
많은 언어에서 컨셉과 문법을 B<차용> 하고 있습니다.
다른 언어도 Perl 에서 문법을 차용하고 있습니다 ; 특히 정규표현확장을 말이죠.
따라서, 다른 언어로 프로그래밍하고 있었다면, Perl 에서도 본적이 있는 듯한
것이 있을 것입니다. 때때로 같은 동작을 하기도 하지만 다른 점에 대한 정보는
L<perltrap>을 참조해주세요.

=head2 Declarations
X<declaration> X<undef> X<undefined> X<uninitialized>

(선언)

=begin original

The only things you need to declare in Perl are report formats and
subroutines (and sometimes not even subroutines).  A variable holds
the undefined value (C<undef>) until it has been assigned a defined
value, which is anything other than C<undef>.  When used as a number,
C<undef> is treated as C<0>; when used as a string, it is treated as
the empty string, C<"">; and when used as a reference that isn't being
assigned to, it is treated as an error.  If you enable warnings,
you'll be notified of an uninitialized value whenever you treat
C<undef> as a string or a number.  Well, usually.  Boolean contexts,
such as:

=end original

Perl 에서 선언이 필요한 것은 리포트 포맷과 서브루틴 뿐입니다.
(서브루틴도 선언이 필요없는 경우도 있습니다)
변수는 C<undef> 이외의 정의된 값을 대입하기까지는 미정의값(C<undef>)이 됩니다.
숫자값으로써 사용될 경우, C<undef> 는 C<0>로 취급됩니다;
문자열로써 사용될 경우, 이것은 빈문자열 C<"">로 취급됩니다;
리퍼런스로써 사용될 경우, 이ㅅ은 아무것도 대입되어있지 않으므로, 에러로써
취급됩니다.
경고를 유효하게 하고 있다면, C<undef>를 문자열이나 숫자값으로써 취급하려고 하면
미초기값을 지적합니다.
네, 보통은,
다음같은 참거짓값 컨텍스트라면 : 

    my $a;
    if ($a) {}

=begin original

are exempt from warnings (because they care about truth rather than
definedness).  Operators such as C<++>, C<-->, C<+=>,
C<-=>, and C<.=>, that operate on undefined left values such as:

=end original

(정의되었는지 어떤지가 아닌 참인가 어떤ㅏ를 고려하므로) 경고를 피할 수 있습니다.
미정의의 좌변치를 조작하는 C<++>, C<-->, C<+=>, C<-=>, C<.=> 같은 연산자에서도 :

    my $a;
    $a++;

=begin original

are also always exempt from such warnings.

=end original

라고하는 것으로도 경고를 피할 수 있습니다.

=begin original

A declaration can be put anywhere a statement can, but has no effect on
the execution of the primary sequence of statements--declarations all
take effect at compile time.  Typically all the declarations are put at
the beginning or the end of the script.  However, if you're using
lexically-scoped private variables created with C<my()>, you'll
have to make sure
your format or subroutine definition is within the same block scope
as the my if you expect to be able to access those private variables.

=end original

선언은, 문장을 놓을 수 있는 곳이면 어디에도 놓을 수 있습니다.
기본적인 문장의 나열은 실행 시에는 어떤 효과도 없습니다 - 선언은 컴파일 시에
모든 것이 효과가 나타납니다.
전형적인 모든 선은은, 스크립트의 맨앞혹은 맨끝에 놓여집니다.
하지만, 지역변수를 C<my()> 를 사용해서 작성하고 렉시컬한 스코프를
사용하고 있다면, 포맷이나 서브루틴의 정의를 같은 블록의 스코프 안에서
그 지역변수에 접근하는 것이 가능하게 할 필요가 있습니다.

=begin original

Declaring a subroutine allows a subroutine name to be used as if it were a
list operator from that point forward in the program.  You can declare a
subroutine without defining it by saying C<sub name>, thus:
X<subroutine, declaration>

=end original

서브루틴의 선언은, 프로그램의 뒷쪽에 있는 서브루틴이름을
리스트연산자처럼 사용하는 것을 허락합니다.
정의되어있지 않은 서브루틴의 선언을, C<sub name> 으로 기술하는 것으로
선언할수 있으므로, 아래처럼 됩니다.

X<subroutine, declaration>

    sub myname;
    $me = myname $0 		or die "can't get myname";

=begin original

Note that myname() functions as a list operator, not as a unary operator;
so be careful to use C<or> instead of C<||> in this case.  However, if
you were to declare the subroutine as C<sub myname ($)>, then
C<myname> would function as a unary operator, so either C<or> or
C<||> would work.

=end original

myname() 함수는, 리스트연산자처럼 움직이며, 단항연산자로써가 아닌 것에
주의해 주세요.
즉, 이런 경우는 C<||> 대신에 C<or> 를 사용하는 것에 주의해 주세요.
그러나, 서브루틴을 C<sub myname($)> 처럼 선언하고 있는 것이라면,
C<or> 에서도, C<||>에서도 잘 움직입니다.

=begin original

Subroutines declarations can also be loaded up with the C<require> statement
or both loaded and imported into your namespace with a C<use> statement.
See L<perlmod> for details on this.

=end original

서브루틴의 선언은 C<require> 문을 사용해 불러 올수 있고,
C<use> 문을 사용해 자신의 이름공간에 로드하거나 임포트하거나 할 수 있습니다.
이것에 관한 자세한 내용은 L<perlmod> 를 참조해주세요.

=begin original

A statement sequence may contain declarations of lexically-scoped
variables, but apart from declaring a variable name, the declaration acts
like an ordinary statement, and is elaborated within the sequence of
statements as if it were an ordinary statement.  That means it actually
has both compile-time and run-time effects.

=end original

구문의 나열은 렉시컬 스코프를 가진 변수의 선언을 포함하는 것이 가능하지만,
변수이름의 선언은 떨어져, 그 선언은 일반적인 구문처럼 움직이고,
그것이 일반적인 구분인지 어떤지... <PASS>
文の並びはレキシカルスコープを持った変数の宣言を含むことができますが、
変数名の宣言とは切り離され、その宣言は通常の文のように振る舞い、
それが通常の文であるかのように文の並びに組みこまれます。
이것은 그런 선언이 컴파일 시의 효과와 실행시의 효과 양쪽을
가지고 있는 것입니다.

=head2 Comments
X<comment> X<#>

(커멘트)

=begin original

Text from a C<"#"> character until the end of the line is a comment,
and is ignored.  Exceptions include C<"#"> inside a string or regular
expression.

=end original

커멘트는 C<"#"> 문자에서 줄의 끝까지 계속해서 그 부분은 무시됩니다. 
예외는 문자열이나 정규표현의 안에 있는 C<"#"> 입니다.

=head2 Simple Statements
X<statement> X<semicolon> X<expression> X<;>

(단순 구문)

=begin original

The only kind of simple statement is an expression evaluated for its
side effects.  Every simple statement must be terminated with a
semicolon, unless it is the final statement in a block, in which case
the semicolon is optional.  (A semicolon is still encouraged if the
block takes up more than one line, because you may eventually add
another line.)  Note that there are some operators like C<eval {}> and
C<do {}> that look like compound statements, but aren't (they're just
TERMs in an expression), and thus need an explicit termination if used
as the last item in a statement.

=end original

단순구문이 되는 유일한 종류는 그 부작용을 위해 평가되는 식입니다.
모든 단순구문은 그것이 세미콜론을 생략하는 것이 가능한 블록의
마지막에 없는 한은 구문을 끝내기 위한 세미콜론이 없으면 안됩니다.
(블록이 2줄이상 넘어가는 경우는 세미콜론을 붙이는 것을 권장합니다.
왜냐면, 다른 줄을 추가하는 가능성이 있기때문입니다)
C<eval {}> 나 C<do {}> 처럼, 복합문처럼 보여도,
그렇지 않은(이것들은 단순한 식을 기반으로 한 TERM 입니다) 것도 있고,
그런 것을 구문의 마지막의 아이템으로써 사용한 경우에는 명시적으로 
끝을 낼 필요가 있다는 것에도 주의해주세요.

=head2 Truth and Falsehood
X<truth> X<falsehood> X<true> X<false> X<!> X<not> X<negation> X<0>

(참/거짓값)

=begin original

The number 0, the strings C<'0'> and C<''>, the empty list C<()>, and
C<undef> are all false in a boolean context. All other values are true.
Negation of a true value by C<!> or C<not> returns a special false value.
When evaluated as a string it is treated as C<''>, but as a number, it
is treated as 0.

=end original

숫자값 0, 문자열 C<'0'> 와 C<''>, 빈리스트 C<()>, C<undef> 는 모두
참거짓값 컨텍스트에서는 거짓이 됩니다.
그외의 모든 값은 참입니다.
참의 값을 C<!> 나 C<not> 으로 부정하면 특수한 거짓값을 반환합니다.
이것을 문자열로써 평가하면 C<''> 로써 취급되지만, 숫자값으로써 평가하면
0 로 취급됩니다.

=head2 Statement Modifiers
X<statement modifier> X<modifier> X<if> X<unless> X<while>
X<until> X<foreach> X<for>

(구문 수식자)

=begin original

Any simple statement may optionally be followed by a I<SINGLE> modifier,
just before the terminating semicolon (or block ending).  The possible
modifiers are:

=end original

임의의 단순구문에는 B<하나의> 수식자를 끝단의 세미콜론의 바로 앞(혹은
블록의 끝단의 바로 앞)에 붙일 수 있습니다.
사용하는 것이 가능한 수식자는 아래와 같습니다.

    if EXPR
    unless EXPR
    while EXPR
    until EXPR
    foreach LIST

=begin original

The C<EXPR> following the modifier is referred to as the "condition".
Its truth or falsehood determines how the modifier will behave.

=end original

수식자는 계속해서 C<EXPR> 은 "조건" 으로 참조됩니다.
그 참거짓값이 수식자의 행동을 결정합니다.

=begin original

C<if> executes the statement once I<if> and only if the condition is
true.  C<unless> is the opposite, it executes the statement I<unless>
the condition is true (i.e., if the condition is false).

=end original

C<if> 는 I<만약> 조건이 참일 경우에만 구문을 실행합니다. 
C<unless> 는 거꾸로, 조건이 참 I<이 아닌 한> (즉, 조건이 거짓이면)
구문을 실행합니다.

    print "Basset hounds got long ears" if length $ear >= 10;
    go_outside() and play() unless $is_raining;

=begin original

The C<foreach> modifier is an iterator: it executes the statement once
for each item in the LIST (with C<$_> aliased to each item in turn).

=end original

C<foreach> 수식자는 반복자입니다 : 
LIST 의 값마다 구문을 실행합니다(실행중은 C<$_> 가 각각의 값의
대행을 하게 됩니다)

    print "Hello $_!\n" foreach qw(world Dolly nurse);

=begin original

C<while> repeats the statement I<while> the condition is true.
C<until> does the opposite, it repeats the statement I<until> the
condition is true (or while the condition is false):

=end original

C<while> 은 조건이 참 I<일 때의> 구문을 반복합니다.
C<until> 은 거꾸로, 조건이 참<이 될때까지>(즉 조건이 거짓일 경우)
구문을 반복합니다.

    # Both of these count from 0 to 10.
    print $i++ while $i <= 10;
    print $j++ until $j >  10;

=begin original

The C<while> and C<until> modifiers have the usual "C<while> loop"
semantics (conditional evaluated first), except when applied to a
C<do>-BLOCK (or to the deprecated C<do>-SUBROUTINE statement), in
which case the block executes once before the conditional is
evaluated.  This is so that you can write loops like:

=end original

수식자 C<while> 과 C<until> 은, 일반적인 "C<while> loop" 의의미를
가지고 있습니다(조건이 맨처음에 평가되는)만, C<do> 블록(혹은 현재
사용을 권하지 않는 C<do> 서브루틴 구문)에 적용될 때는 예외로
이 때는 조건이 평가되기 전에 한번 블록이 실행됩니다.
이 때문애, 다음같은 루프를 쓸 수 있습니다.

    do {
	$line = <STDIN>;
	...
    } until $line  eq ".\n";

=begin original

See L<perlfunc/do>.  Note also that the loop control statements described
later will I<NOT> work in this construct, because modifiers don't take
loop labels.  Sorry.  You can always put another block inside of it
(for C<next>) or around it (for C<last>) to do that sort of thing.
For C<next>, just double the braces:
X<next> X<last> X<redo>

=end original

L<perlfunc/do> 를 참조해주세요. 
뒤에 쓰인 루프의 제어문은 수식자 푸르라벨을 가지고 있지 않아서
이 구조문에서는 I<동작하지 않는> 다는 것에 주의해 주세요.
죄송합니다.
이런 경우에 대처하는 것에 별도의 블록을 안쪽에 넣거나 (C<next> 의 경우),
별도의 블록에서 포함되게(C<last> 의 경우) 하는 방법이 일반적으로 사용됩니다.
C<next> 에서는 간단히 중괄호를 이중으로 사용합니다.

X<next> X<last> X<redo>

    do {{
	next if $x == $y;
	# do something here
    }} until $x++ > $z;

=begin original

For C<last>, you have to be more elaborate:
X<last>

=end original

C<last> 의 경우는, 더욱 주의할 필요가 있습니다. 

    LOOP: { 
	    do {
		last if $x = $y**2;
		# do something here
	    } while $x++ <= $z;
    }

=begin original

B<NOTE:> The behaviour of a C<my> statement modified with a statement
modifier conditional or loop construct (e.g. C<my $x if ...>) is
B<undefined>.  The value of the C<my> variable may be C<undef>, any
previously assigned value, or possibly anything else.  Don't rely on
it.  Future versions of perl might do something different from the
version of perl you try it out on.  Here be dragons.
X<my>

=end original

B<주의:> (C<my $x if ...> 같은) 조건구조나 루프구조에서 수식된
C<my> 문의 행동은 B<미정의>입니다. 
C<my> 변수의 값은 C<undef> 일지도 모르고, 이전에 대입된 값일지도 모르며,
그 외의 여하에 따라 값의 가능성이 있습니다.
이 값에 의존해서는 안됩니다.
perl 의 장래의 버젼에서는 현재의 버젼과는 뭔가 다를지도 모르겠습니다.
여기에는 좀 이상한 것이 있습니다.
X<my>

=head2 Compound Statements
X<statement, compound> X<block> X<bracket, curly> X<curly bracket> X<brace>
X<{> X<}> X<if> X<unless> X<while> X<until> X<foreach> X<for> X<continue>

(복합문)

=begin original

In Perl, a sequence of statements that defines a scope is called a block.
Sometimes a block is delimited by the file containing it (in the case
of a required file, or the program as a whole), and sometimes a block
is delimited by the extent of a string (in the case of an eval).

=end original

Perl 에서는 스코프를 정의하는 듯한 구문을 블록이라고 부릅니다.
블록은 그것을 포함한 파일에 의해 범위가 정해지는 경우가 있으며,
(파일이 require 된 때나, 프로그램전체인 경우)
문자열의 전개에 따라 범위가 정해지는(eval 의 경우) 경우도 있습니다.

=begin original

But generally, a block is delimited by curly brackets, also known as braces.
We will call this syntactic construct a BLOCK.

=end original

그러나 일반적으로는 블록은 중괄호에 의해 범위가 정해집니다.
이 구문적인 구조를 블록이라고 부릅니다.

=begin original

The following compound statements may be used to control flow:

=end original

아래에 있는 복합문을 제어흐름으로써 사용할 수 있습니다.

    if (EXPR) BLOCK
    if (EXPR) BLOCK else BLOCK
    if (EXPR) BLOCK elsif (EXPR) BLOCK ... else BLOCK
    LABEL while (EXPR) BLOCK
    LABEL while (EXPR) BLOCK continue BLOCK
    LABEL until (EXPR) BLOCK
    LABEL until (EXPR) BLOCK continue BLOCK
    LABEL for (EXPR; EXPR; EXPR) BLOCK
    LABEL foreach VAR (LIST) BLOCK
    LABEL foreach VAR (LIST) BLOCK continue BLOCK
    LABEL BLOCK continue BLOCK

=begin original

Note that, unlike C and Pascal, these are defined in terms of BLOCKs,
not statements.  This means that the curly brackets are I<required>--no
dangling statements allowed.  If you want to write conditionals without
curly brackets there are several other ways to do it.  The following
all do the same thing:

=end original

그러나 주의해줬으면 하는 것은 C 나 Pascal 과는 달리, 블록을 얻는 것처럼
정의되어 있는 구문을 얻는 것은 아니라는 것입니다.
즉, 중괄호는 I<필요한 것>입니다. -- 어줍잖은 구문은 용납하지 않습니다!<PASS>
중괄호없는 조건문을 사용하고 싶다면, 몇 가지 방법이 있습니다.
아래는 전부 같은 것 입니다.

    if (!open(FOO)) { die "Can't open $FOO: $!"; }
    die "Can't open $FOO: $!" unless open(FOO);
    open(FOO) or die "Can't open $FOO: $!";	# FOO or bust!
    open(FOO) ? 'hi mom' : die "Can't open $FOO: $!";
			# a bit exotic, that last one

=begin original

The C<if> statement is straightforward.  Because BLOCKs are always
bounded by curly brackets, there is never any ambiguity about which
C<if> an C<else> goes with.  If you use C<unless> in place of C<if>,
the sense of the test is reversed.

=end original

C<if> 구문은 명해입니다. 
블록은 항상 중괄호로 구분지어지기에, C<if> 와 C<else> 에서 빼먹는 경우는
결코 없습니다.
C<unless> 를 C 의 C<if> 처럼 사용하고 싶다면 검사를 반전합니다.

=begin original

The C<while> statement executes the block as long as the expression is
L<true|/"Truth and Falsehood">.
The C<until> statement executes the block as long as the expression is
false.
The LABEL is optional, and if present, consists of an identifier followed
by a colon.  The LABEL identifies the loop for the loop control
statements C<next>, C<last>, and C<redo>.
If the LABEL is omitted, the loop control statement
refers to the innermost enclosing loop.  This may include dynamically
looking back your call-stack at run time to find the LABEL.  Such
desperate behavior triggers a warning if you use the C<use warnings>
pragma or the B<-w> flag.

=end original

C<while> 문은, 식이 L<참|/"Truth and Faslehood">인 경우, 블록을
실행합니다.
C<until> 문은, 식이 거짓일 경우, 블록을 실행합니다.
LABEL 은 생략할 수 있지만, 어떤 경우에는 콜론을 붙인 식별자로 쓰이기도 합니다.
LABEL 은 C<next>、C<last>、C<redo> 같은 루프제어문의 루프를 규정합니다.
LABEL 이 생략된 경우, 루프제어문은 그것을 포함한 루프의 안에서 가장 안쪽의
루프를 참조합니다.
이것은 실행 시에 LABEL 을 검출하기위한 호출 스택의 동적인 후방검색을
포함하는 것이 가능합니다.
그런 권장하지 않는 행위는, C<use warnings> 프라그마나 B<-w> 플래그를
사용한 경우에는 경고의 원인이 됩니다.

=begin original

If there is a C<continue> BLOCK, it is always executed just before the
conditional is about to be evaluated again.  Thus it can be used to
increment a loop variable, even when the loop has been continued via
the C<next> statement.

=end original

C<continue> 블록이 존재하는 경우,
항상 조건이 재평가되기 직전에 실행됩니다.
따라서, 이 블록을 루프변수의 가산을 위해서 사용할 수 있습니다.
이것은 루프가 C<next> 문을 통해서 계속될 때에도 실행됩니다.

=head2 Loop Control
X<loop control> X<loop, control> X<next> X<last> X<redo> X<continue>

(루프제어)

=begin original

The C<next> command starts the next iteration of the loop:

=end original

C<next> 커맨드는 루프의 다음 반복을 시작합니다.

    LINE: while (<STDIN>) {
	next LINE if /^#/;	# discard comments
	...
    }

=begin original

The C<last> command immediately exits the loop in question.  The
C<continue> block, if any, is not executed:

=end original

C<last> 커맨드는 루프에서 즉시 탈출합니다.
C<continue> 블록이 있어도 그것은 실행되지 않습니다.

    LINE: while (<STDIN>) {
	last LINE if /^$/;	# exit when done with header
	...
    }

=begin original

The C<redo> command restarts the loop block without evaluating the
conditional again.  The C<continue> block, if any, is I<not> executed.
This command is normally used by programs that want to lie to themselves
about what was just input.

=end original

C<redo> 커맨드는 조건의 재평가 없이 루프 블록을 재실행합니다.
C<continue> 블록이 있어도, 그것은 I<실행되지 않습니다>.
이 커맨드는 일반적으로, 프로그램에 대한 입력에 관해서 프로그램 스스로에게
거짓말을 하고 싶을 때에 사용됩니다.

=begin original

For example, when processing a file like F</etc/termcap>.
If your input lines might end in backslashes to indicate continuation, you
want to skip ahead and get the next record.

=end original

예를 들면, F</etc/termap> 같은 파일을 처리한다고 생각해보죠.
만약 입력된 줄의 끝이 계속을 나타내는 백슬래쉬인 경우, 
다음의 레코드를 얻어내고 싶다고 생각할 겁니다.

    while (<>) {
	chomp;
	if (s/\\$//) {
	    $_ .= <>;
	    redo unless eof();
	}
	# now process $_
    }

=begin original

which is Perl short-hand for the more explicitly written version:

=end original

이것은 Perl 의 생략표기로, 더욱 명확하게 쓴다면 다음과 같이 됩니다.

    LINE: while (defined($line = <ARGV>)) {
	chomp($line);
	if ($line =~ s/\\$//) {
	    $line .= <ARGV>;
	    redo LINE unless eof(); # not eof(ARGV)!
	}
	# now process $line
    }

=begin original

Note that if there were a C<continue> block on the above code, it would
get executed only on lines discarded by the regex (since redo skips the
continue block). A continue block is often used to reset line counters
or C<?pat?> one-time matches:

=end original

上記の例で C<continue> ブロックがあったとしたら、それは
(redo は continue ブロックをスキップするので) 正規表現によって
捨てられた行だけが実行されるということに注意してください。
continue ブロックは行カウンターをリセットするとか、
一度だけマッチする C<?pat?> をリセットするのに使われます。

    # inspired by :1,$g/fred/s//WILMA/
    while (<>) {
	?(fred)?    && s//WILMA $1 WILMA/;
	?(barney)?  && s//BETTY $1 BETTY/;
	?(homer)?   && s//MARGE $1 MARGE/;
    } continue {
	print "$ARGV $.: $_";
	close ARGV  if eof();		# reset $.
	reset	    if eof();		# reset ?pat?
    }

=begin original

If the word C<while> is replaced by the word C<until>, the sense of the
test is reversed, but the conditional is still tested before the first
iteration.

=end original

C<while> を C<until> で置き換えた場合検査の意味は逆転しますが、
繰り返しが実行されるより前に条件が検査されることは変わりありません。

=begin original

The loop control statements don't work in an C<if> or C<unless>, since
they aren't loops.  You can double the braces to make them such, though.

=end original

ループ制御文は C<if> や C<unless> 中では動作しません。
なぜならそこはループではないからです。
しかし中かっこを二重にしてこれに対処することはできます。

    if (/pattern/) {{
	last if /fred/;
	next if /barney/; # same effect as "last", but doesn't document as well
	# do something here
    }}

=begin original

This is caused by the fact that a block by itself acts as a loop that
executes once, see L<"Basic BLOCKs">.

=end original

これは、ブロック自身は一度だけ実行されるループとして動作するからです;
L<"Basic BLOCKs"> を参照してください。

=begin original

The form C<while/if BLOCK BLOCK>, available in Perl 4, is no longer
available.   Replace any occurrence of C<if BLOCK> by C<if (do BLOCK)>.

=end original

Perl 4 では使うことのできた C<while/if BLOCK BLOCK> という形式は、
もはや使うことができません。
C<if BLOCK> の部分を C<if (do BLOCK)> で置き換えてください。

=head2 For Loops
X<for> X<foreach>

(for ループ)

=begin original

Perl's C-style C<for> loop works like the corresponding C<while> loop;
that means that this:

=end original

Perl の C 形式の C<for> ループは、対応する C<while> ループと同様に
動作します。
つまり、以下のものは:

    for ($i = 1; $i < 10; $i++) {
	...
    }

=begin original

is the same as this:

=end original

以下のものと同じです:

    $i = 1;
    while ($i < 10) {
	...
    } continue {
	$i++;
    }

=begin original

There is one minor difference: if variables are declared with C<my>
in the initialization section of the C<for>, the lexical scope of
those variables is exactly the C<for> loop (the body of the loop
and the control sections).
X<my>

=end original

小さな違いが一つあります: C<for> の初期化部で C<my> を使って変数が
宣言された場合、この変数のレキシカルスコープは C<for> ループ
(ループ本体と制御部) と完全に同じです。
X<my>

=begin original

Besides the normal array index looping, C<for> can lend itself
to many other interesting applications.  Here's one that avoids the
problem you get into if you explicitly test for end-of-file on
an interactive file descriptor causing your program to appear to
hang.
X<eof> X<end-of-file> X<end of file>

=end original

通常の、配列に対する添え字付けのループのほかにも、C<for> は他の
多くの興味深いアプリケーションのために借用することができます。
以下の例は、対話的なファイル記述子の終端を明示的に検査してしまうと
プログラムをハングアップしたように見えてしまう問題を回避するものです。
X<eof> X<end-of-file> X<end of file>

    $on_a_tty = -t STDIN && -t STDOUT;
    sub prompt { print "yes? " if $on_a_tty }
    for ( prompt(); <STDIN>; prompt() ) {
	# do something
    }

=begin original

Using C<readline> (or the operator form, C<< <EXPR> >>) as the
conditional of a C<for> loop is shorthand for the following.  This
behaviour is the same as a C<while> loop conditional.
X<readline> X<< <> >>

=end original

C<for> ループの条件として C<readline> (または演算子形式の C<< <EXPR> >>) を
使う場合、以下のように省略形が使えます。
この振る舞いは C<while> ループ条件と同じです。
X<readline> X<< <> >>

    for ( prompt(); defined( $_ = <STDIN> ); prompt() ) {
        # do something
    }

=head2 Foreach Loops
X<for> X<foreach>

(foreach ループ)

=begin original

The C<foreach> loop iterates over a normal list value and sets the
variable VAR to be each element of the list in turn.  If the variable
is preceded with the keyword C<my>, then it is lexically scoped, and
is therefore visible only within the loop.  Otherwise, the variable is
implicitly local to the loop and regains its former value upon exiting
the loop.  If the variable was previously declared with C<my>, it uses
that variable instead of the global one, but it's still localized to
the loop.  This implicit localisation occurs I<only> in a C<foreach>
loop.
X<my> X<local>

=end original

C<foreach> ループは 通常のリスト値に対しての繰り返しを行い、変数 VAR に
リストの要素を繰り返し一回に一つずつセットします。
変数の前に C<my> というキーワードが置かれていた場合、その変数は
レキシカルスコープを持ち、したがってそれはループの中でのみ可視となります。
このキーワードがなければ、変数はループに対してローカルとなり、ループを
抜けた後で以前の値が再度取得されます。
変数が事前に C<my> を使って宣言されていたならば、グローバルなものの
代わりにその変数を使いますが、それもループにローカルなものとなります。
この暗黙のローカル化は C<foreach> の中で I<のみ> 起きます。
X<my> X<local>

=begin original

The C<foreach> keyword is actually a synonym for the C<for> keyword, so
you can use C<foreach> for readability or C<for> for brevity.  (Or because
the Bourne shell is more familiar to you than I<csh>, so writing C<for>
comes more naturally.)  If VAR is omitted, C<$_> is set to each value.
X<$_>

=end original

読みやすさのために C<foreach> を、簡潔さのために C<for> を使うことが
できます(あるいは C シェルよりも Bourne シェルに親しんでいるのなら
C<for> の方が自然でしょう)。
VAR が省略された場合には、C<$_> に値が設定されます。
X<$_>

=begin original

If any element of LIST is an lvalue, you can modify it by modifying
VAR inside the loop.  Conversely, if any element of LIST is NOT an
lvalue, any attempt to modify that element will fail.  In other words,
the C<foreach> loop index variable is an implicit alias for each item
in the list that you're looping over.
X<alias>

=end original

LIST の要素が左辺値であった場合、ループの中で VAR を変更することにより、
対応する値を変更することができます。
逆に、LIST の要素が左辺値でない場合は、この要素を修正しようとしても
失敗します。
言い換えると、C<foreach> ループの帰納変数がループの対象となっている
リスト中の個々のアイテムに対するエイリアスになっているからです。
X<alias>

=begin original

If any part of LIST is an array, C<foreach> will get very confused if
you add or remove elements within the loop body, for example with
C<splice>.   So don't do that.
X<splice>

=end original

LIST のいずれかの部分が配列であった場合に、たとえば C<splice> を使って
ループの本体でその要素を削除したりあるいは追加したりすると
C<foreach> は非常に混乱してしまいます。
ですからそういうことをしてはいけません。
X<splice>

=begin original

C<foreach> probably won't do what you expect if VAR is a tied or other
special variable.   Don't do that either.

=end original

VAR が tie されていたりあるいは他の特殊変数であった場合には
C<foreach> はあなたのもくろみどおりには動かないでしょう。
こういうこともしてはいけません。

=begin original

Examples:

=end original

例:

    for (@ary) { s/foo/bar/ }

    for my $elem (@elements) {
	$elem *= 2;
    }

    for $count (10,9,8,7,6,5,4,3,2,1,'BOOM') {
	print $count, "\n"; sleep(1);
    }

    for (1..15) { print "Merry Christmas\n"; }

    foreach $item (split(/:[\\\n:]*/, $ENV{TERMCAP})) {
	print "Item: $item\n";
    }

=begin original

Here's how a C programmer might code up a particular algorithm in Perl:

=end original

以下の例は、C プログラマーが Perl でとあるアルゴリズムを記述するときに
使うであろうやり方です:

    for (my $i = 0; $i < @ary1; $i++) {
	for (my $j = 0; $j < @ary2; $j++) {
	    if ($ary1[$i] > $ary2[$j]) {
		last; # can't go to outer :-(
	    }
	    $ary1[$i] += $ary2[$j];
	}
	# this is where that last takes me
    }

=begin original

Whereas here's how a Perl programmer more comfortable with the idiom might
do it:

=end original

それに対して、次の例は Perl プログラマーが同じことをよりゆったりとして
行うやり方です:

    OUTER: for my $wid (@ary1) {
    INNER:   for my $jet (@ary2) {
		next OUTER if $wid > $jet;
		$wid += $jet;
	     }
	  }

=begin original

See how much easier this is?  It's cleaner, safer, and faster.  It's
cleaner because it's less noisy.  It's safer because if code gets added
between the inner and outer loops later on, the new code won't be
accidentally executed.  The C<next> explicitly iterates the other loop
rather than merely terminating the inner one.  And it's faster because
Perl executes a C<foreach> statement more rapidly than it would the
equivalent C<for> loop.

=end original

どのくらいこれが簡単になったように見えますか? これは明確で、安全で、
高速です。
これは余計なものが少ないので明確なのです。
これは後で内側のループと外側のループとの間にコードを付加えた場合でも、
それを間違って実行することがないので安全なのです。
C<next> は内側のループを終了するのではなく、外側のループの繰り返しを
行います。
そしてこれは、Perl は C<foreach> 文をそれと等価な C<for> ループよりも
すばやく実行するので高速なのです。

=head2 Basic BLOCKs
X<block>

(基本ブロック)

=begin original

A BLOCK by itself (labeled or not) is semantically equivalent to a
loop that executes once.  Thus you can use any of the loop control
statements in it to leave or restart the block.  (Note that this is
I<NOT> true in C<eval{}>, C<sub{}>, or contrary to popular belief
C<do{}> blocks, which do I<NOT> count as loops.)  The C<continue>
block is optional.

=end original

ブロックそれ自身は(ラベルが付いていようがついてなかろうが)一度だけ
実行されるループと、文法的には等価なものです。
このため、ブロックから脱出するためやブロックの再スタートのために
任意のループ制御文を使うことができます(これは C<eval{}>、C<sub{}>、
さらに一般的な認識とは異なり I<ループではない> C<do{}> ブロックに対しては
I<真ではない> ということに注意してください)。
C<continue> ブロックは省略することができます。

=begin original

The BLOCK construct can be used to emulate case structures.

=end original

BLOCK 構造は case 構造を行うのにも使えます。

    SWITCH: {
	if (/^abc/) { $abc = 1; last SWITCH; }
	if (/^def/) { $def = 1; last SWITCH; }
	if (/^xyz/) { $xyz = 1; last SWITCH; }
	$nothing = 1;
    }

=begin original

Such constructs are quite frequently used, because older versions
of Perl had no official C<switch> statement.

=end original

古いバージョンの Perl には公式の C<switch> 文がなかったので、このような
構文はとてもよく使われています。

=head2 Switch statements
X<switch> X<case> X<given> X<when> X<default>

(switch 文)

=begin original

Starting from Perl 5.10, you can say

=end original

Perl 5.10 から、以下のように書くと:

    use feature "switch";

=begin original

which enables a switch feature that is closely based on the
Perl 6 proposal.

=end original

Perl 6 で提案されているものを基礎とした switch 機能が有効になります。

=begin original

The keywords C<given> and C<when> are analogous
to C<switch> and C<case> in other languages, so the code
above could be written as

=end original

キーワード C<given> と C<when> は他の言語での C<switch> および C<case> と
同様のものなので、上記のコードは以下のように書けます:

    given($_) {
	when (/^abc/) { $abc = 1; }
	when (/^def/) { $def = 1; }
	when (/^xyz/) { $xyz = 1; }
	default { $nothing = 1; }
    }

=begin original

This construct is very flexible and powerful. For example:

=end original

この構造はとても柔軟で、強力です。
例えば:

    use feature ":5.10";
    given($foo) {
	when (undef) {
	    say '$foo is undefined';
	}
	
	when ("foo") {
	    say '$foo is the string "foo"';
	}
	
	when ([1,3,5,7,9]) {
	    say '$foo is an odd digit';
	    continue; # Fall through
	}
	
	when ($_ < 100) {
	    say '$foo is numerically less than 100';
	}
	
	when (\&complicated_check) {
	    say 'complicated_check($foo) is true';
	}
	
	default {
	    die q(I don't know what to do with $foo);
	}
    }

=begin original

C<given(EXPR)> will assign the value of EXPR to C<$_>
within the lexical scope of the block, so it's similar to

=end original

C<given(EXPR)> はブロックのレキシカルスコープ内で EXPR を C<$_> に
代入するので、これは以下と似ています:

	do { my $_ = EXPR; ... }

=begin original

except that the block is automatically broken out of by a
successful C<when> or an explicit C<break>.

=end original

しかし、ブロックは C<when> が成功するか、明示的な C<break> によって
自動的に破壊されるところが違います。

=begin original

Most of the power comes from implicit smart matching:

=end original

強力さのほとんどは暗黙のスマートマッチングによるものです:

	when($foo)

=begin original

is exactly equivalent to

=end original

は正確に以下と等価です:

	when($_ ~~ $foo)

=begin original

In fact C<when(EXPR)> is treated as an implicit smart match most of the
time. The exceptions are that when EXPR is:

=end original

実際のところ、C<when(EXPR)> はほとんどの場合で暗黙のスマートマッチングとして
扱われます。
例外は EXPR が以下の場合です:

=over 4

=item o

=begin original

a subroutine or method call

=end original

サブルーチンかメソッド呼び出し

=item o

=begin original

a regular expression match, i.e. C</REGEX/> or C<$foo =~ /REGEX/>,
or a negated regular expression match C<$foo !~ /REGEX/>.

=end original

正規表現マッチング: つまり、C</REGEX/> や C<$foo =~ /REGEX/> や
正規表現マッチングの否定 C<$foo !~ /REGEX/>。

=item o

=begin original

a comparison such as C<$_ E<lt> 10> or C<$x eq "abc">
(or of course C<$_ ~~ $c>)

=end original

C<$_ E<lt> 10> や C<$x eq "abc"> (や、もちろん C<$_ ~~ $c>) のような比較

=item o

=begin original

C<defined(...)>, C<exists(...)>, or C<eof(...)>

=end original

C<defined(...)>, C<exists(...)>, C<eof(...)> のいずれか

=item o

=begin original

A negated expression C<!(...)> or C<not (...)>, or a logical
exclusive-or C<(...) xor (...)>.

=end original

否定表現 C<!(...)>, C<not (...)>, 排他的論理和 C<(...) xor (...)>

=back

=begin original

then the value of EXPR is used directly as a boolean.
Furthermore:

=end original

このような場合、EXPR の値は直接真偽値として使われます。
更に:

=over 4

=item o

=begin original

If EXPR is C<... && ...> or C<... and ...>, the test
is applied recursively to both arguments. If I<both>
arguments pass the test, then the argument is treated
as boolean.

=end original

EXPR が C<... && ...> または C<... and ...> の場合、テストは両方の
引数に対して再帰的に適用されます。
I<両方の> 引数がテストに成功した場合、この引数は真偽値として扱われます。

=item o

=begin original

If EXPR is C<... || ...> or C<... or ...>, the test
is applied recursively to the first argument.

=end original

EXPR が C<... || ...> または C<... or ...> の場合、テストは最初の引数に
対して再帰的に適用されます。

=back

=begin original

These rules look complicated, but usually they will do what
you want. For example you could write:

=end original

これらの規則は複雑に見えますが、普通はあなたが実行したい通りに実行します。
例えば、以下のように書けます:

    when (/^\d+$/ && $_ < 75) { ... }

=begin original

Another useful shortcut is that, if you use a literal array
or hash as the argument to C<when>, it is turned into a
reference. So C<given(@foo)> is the same as C<given(\@foo)>,
for example.

=end original

その他の便利な省略記法としては、C<when> の引数としてリテラルな配列や
ハッシュを書くと、これはリファレンスに変化します。
それで、例えば C<given(@foo)> は C<given(\@foo)> と同じです。

=begin original

C<default> behaves exactly like C<when(1 == 1)>, which is
to say that it always matches.

=end original

C<default> は正確に C<when(1 == 1)> のように振る舞い、常に
マッチングします。

=begin original

See L</"Smart matching in detail"> for more information
on smart matching.

=end original

スマートマッチングに関するさらなる情報については
L</"Smart matching in detail"> を参照してください。

=head3 Breaking out

(脱出)

=begin original

You can use the C<break> keyword to break out of the enclosing
C<given> block.  Every C<when> block is implicitly ended with
a C<break>.

=end original

囲まれている C<given> ブロックから脱出するために、C<break> キーワードが
使えます。
全ての C<when> ブロックの末尾には暗黙に C<break> があります。

=head3 Fall-through

(次の条件への移動(Fall-through))

=begin original

You can use the C<continue> keyword to fall through from one
case to the next:

=end original

一つの条件から次へ移動するためには、C<continue> キーワードが使えます:

    given($foo) {
	when (/x/) { say '$foo contains an x'; continue }
	when (/y/) { say '$foo contains a y' }
	default    { say '$foo contains neither an x nor a y' }
    }

=head3 Switching in a loop

(ループ内の switch)

=begin original

Instead of using C<given()>, you can use a C<foreach()> loop.
For example, here's one way to count how many times a particular
string occurs in an array:

=end original

C<given()> を使う代わりに、C<foreach()> ループを使えます。
たとえば、以下は配列内に特定の文字列が何回現れるかを数えるための
ひとつの方法です:

    my $count = 0;
    for (@array) {
	when ("foo") { ++$count }
    }
    print "\@array contains $count copies of 'foo'\n";

=begin original

On exit from the C<when> block, there is an implicit C<next>.
You can override that with an explicit C<last> if you're only
interested in the first match.

=end original

C<when> ブロックからの終了時に、暗黙の C<next> があります。
もし最初のマッチングだけに興味があるなら、明示的な C<last> でこれを
上書きできます。

=begin original

This doesn't work if you explicitly specify a loop variable,
as in C<for $item (@array)>. You have to use the default
variable C<$_>. (You can use C<for my $_ (@array)>.)

=end original

これは、C<for $item (@array)> のように明示的にループ変数を指定した場合は
動作しません。
デフォルト変数 C<$_> を使う必要があります。
(C<for my $_ (@array)> は使えます。)

=head3 Smart matching in detail

(スマートマッチングの詳細)

=begin original

The behaviour of a smart match depends on what type of thing
its arguments are. It is always commutative, i.e. C<$a ~~ $b>
behaves the same as C<$b ~~ $a>. The behaviour is determined
by the following table: the first row that applies, in either
order, determines the match behaviour.

=end original

スマートマッチングの振る舞いは引数にどのような型が使われたかに依存します。
これは常に可換性があります; つまり、C<$a ~~ $b> は C<$b ~~ $a> と同様に
振る舞います。
振る舞いは以下の表によって決定されます: 
適用される最初の行(どのような順序でも)がマッチングの振る舞いを決定します。

=begin original

    $a      $b        Type of Match Implied    Matching Code
    ======  =====     =====================    =============
    (overloading trumps everything)

=end original

    $a      $b        暗黙に行われるマッチング マッチングコード
    ======  =====     ======================== =============
    (全てはオーバーロード可能です)

    Code[+] Code[+]   referential equality     $a == $b
    Any     Code[+]   scalar sub truth         $b->($a)

    Hash    Hash      hash keys identical      [sort keys %$a]~~[sort keys %$b]
    Hash    Array     hash slice existence     grep {exists $a->{$_}} @$b
    Hash    Regex     hash key grep            grep /$b/, keys %$a
    Hash    Any       hash entry existence     exists $a->{$b}

    Array   Array     arrays are identical[*]
    Array   Regex     array grep               grep /$b/, @$a
    Array   Num       array contains number    grep $_ == $b, @$a
    Array   Any       array contains string    grep $_ eq $b, @$a

    Any     undef     undefined                !defined $a
    Any     Regex     pattern match            $a =~ /$b/
    Code()  Code()    results are equal        $a->() eq $b->()
    Any     Code()    simple closure truth     $b->() # ignoring $a
    Num     numish[!] numeric equality         $a == $b
    Any     Str       string equality          $a eq $b
    Any     Num       numeric equality         $a == $b

=begin original

    Any     Any       string equality          $a eq $b

=end original

    Any     Any       文字列比較               $a eq $b

=begin original

 + - this must be a code reference whose prototype (if present) is not ""
     (subs with a "" prototype are dealt with by the 'Code()' entry lower down)
 * - that is, each element matches the element of same index in the other
     array. If a circular reference is found, we fall back to referential
     equality.
 ! - either a real number, or a string that looks like a number

=end original

 + - これは、プロトタイプが(あれば) "" でないコードリファレンスでなければ
     なりません(プロトタイプが "" のサブルーチンはさらに下に書いている
     'Code()' で扱われます)
 * - 各要素をもう一つの配列の同じインデックスの要素とマッチングします。
     循環リファレンスが発見されると、参照の等価性にフォールバックします。
 ! - 実数か、数値のように見える文字列

=begin original

The "matching code" doesn't represent the I<real> matching code,
of course: it's just there to explain the intended meaning. Unlike
C<grep>, the smart match operator will short-circuit whenever it can.

=end original

「マッチングコード」は、もちろん I<実際の> マッチングコードを
表現していません: これは単に意図を説明しているだけです。
C<grep> と違って、スマートマッチング演算子は何かの省略形です。

=head3 Custom matching via overloading

(オーバーロードを使ったマッチングのカスタマイズ)

=begin original

You can change the way that an object is matched by overloading
the C<~~> operator. This trumps the usual smart match semantics.
See L<overload>.

=end original

C<~~> 演算子をオーバーロードすることで、オブジェクトのマッチングする方法を
変更できます。
これは通常のスマートマッチングの意味論に打ち勝ちます。
L<overload> を参照してください。

=head3 Differences from Perl 6

(Perl 6 からの違い)

=begin original

The Perl 5 smart match and C<given>/C<when> constructs are not
absolutely identical to their Perl 6 analogues. The most visible
difference is that, in Perl 5, parentheses are required around
the argument to C<given()> and C<when()>. Parentheses in Perl 6
are always optional in a control construct such as C<if()>,
C<while()>, or C<when()>; they can't be made optional in Perl
5 without a great deal of potential confusion, because Perl 5
would parse the expression

=end original

Perl 5 のスマートマッチングと C<given>/C<when> 構文は Perl 6 のものと
完全に同一ではありません。
もっとも目に見える違いは、Perl 5 では、C<given()> と C<when()> の
引数はかっこでくくる必要があります。
Perl 6 では、C<if()>, C<while()>, C<when()> のような制御構造での
かっこは常に省略可能です;
Perl 5 では、潜在的な大混乱と引き換えにしなければこれを省略できません;
なぜなら Perl 5 は以下のような表現において:

  given $foo {
    ...
  }

=begin original

as though the argument to C<given> were an element of the hash
C<%foo>, interpreting the braces as hash-element syntax.

=end original

C<given> の引数はハッシュ C<%foo> の要素であるかのようにパースして、
中かっこをハッシュ要素文法として解釈するからです。

=begin original

The table of smart matches is not identical to that proposed by the
Perl 6 specification, mainly due to the differences between Perl 6's
and Perl 5's data models.

=end original

スマートマッチングの表は Perl 6 仕様で提案されれているものと
同一ではありません; 主に Perl 6 と Perl 5 のデータモデルの違いによります。

=begin original

In Perl 6, C<when()> will always do an implicit smart match
with its argument, whilst it is convenient in Perl 5 to
suppress this implicit smart match in certain situations,
as documented above. (The difference is largely because Perl 5
does not, even internally, have a boolean type.)

=end original

Perl 6 では、C<when()> は常にその引数に対する暗黙のスマートマッチングを
行いますが、Perl 5 では上述の通り、状況によっては暗黙のスマートマッチングを
抑制したほうが便利です。
(主な違いは、Perl 5 は内部的にさえ真偽値型を持たないことによります。)

=head2 Goto
X<goto>

(goto 文)

=begin original

Although not for the faint of heart, Perl does support a C<goto>
statement.  There are three forms: C<goto>-LABEL, C<goto>-EXPR, and
C<goto>-&NAME.  A loop's LABEL is not actually a valid target for
a C<goto>; it's just the name of the loop.

=end original

気弱な人のためでないにも関らず、Perl は C<goto> 文をサポートしています。
C<goto>-LABEL、C<goto>-EXPR、C<goto>-&NAME の三つの形式があります。
ループのラベルは実際には C<goto> の正当なターゲットではなく、
ループの名前にすぎません。

=begin original

The C<goto>-LABEL form finds the statement labeled with LABEL and resumes
execution there.  It may not be used to go into any construct that
requires initialization, such as a subroutine or a C<foreach> loop.  It
also can't be used to go into a construct that is optimized away.  It
can be used to go almost anywhere else within the dynamic scope,
including out of subroutines, but it's usually better to use some other
construct such as C<last> or C<die>.  The author of Perl has never felt the
need to use this form of C<goto> (in Perl, that is--C is another matter).

=end original

C<goto>-LABEL 形式は LABEL でラベル付けされた文を見つけだし、そこから
実行を再開します。
これはサブルーチンであるとか C<foreach> ループのような
初期化を必要とするような構造へ飛び込むために使うことはできません。
また、最適化されて無くなってしまうような構造へ飛び込むこともできません。
動的スコープの中以外のほとんどの場所へは、サブルーチンの
外も含めて移動することができます。
しかし、通常は C<last> や C<die> のような別のやり方を使ったほうが
良いでしょう。
Perl の作者は、未だかつてこの形式の C<goto> を使うことが
必要だと感じたことはありません(Perl の場合です。C の場合はまた別の話です)。

=begin original

The C<goto>-EXPR form expects a label name, whose scope will be resolved
dynamically.  This allows for computed C<goto>s per FORTRAN, but isn't
necessarily recommended if you're optimizing for maintainability:

=end original

C<goto>-EXPR 形式は動的に解決されるスコープを持っているラベル名を
期待しています。
これによって FORTRAN の計算型 C<goto> が実現できますが、
これは保守性に重きを置くのであれば使うことは止めた方が良いでしょう。

    goto(("FOO", "BAR", "GLARCH")[$i]);

=begin original

The C<goto>-&NAME form is highly magical, and substitutes a call to the
named subroutine for the currently running subroutine.  This is used by
C<AUTOLOAD()> subroutines that wish to load another subroutine and then
pretend that the other subroutine had been called in the first place
(except that any modifications to C<@_> in the current subroutine are
propagated to the other subroutine.)  After the C<goto>, not even C<caller()>
will be able to tell that this routine was called first.

=end original

C<goto>-&NAME は高度にマジカルで、名前付きサブルーチンの呼び出しを
カレントで実行されているサブルーチンに置き換えます。
これは別のサブルーチンをロードして、最初の場所で呼び出された
別のサブルーチンを要求することをしようとする
C<AUTOLOAD()> サブルーチンで使われていてます
(カレントのサブルーチンにおける C<@_> に対するもの以外の変更は、
別のサブルーチンへ伝播します)。
C<goto> の後で、C<caller()> でなくてもこのサブルーチンが
最初に呼ばれたのだということを伝えることすらできるでしょう。

=begin original

In almost all cases like this, it's usually a far, far better idea to use the
structured control flow mechanisms of C<next>, C<last>, or C<redo> instead of
resorting to a C<goto>.  For certain applications, the catch and throw pair of
C<eval{}> and die() for exception processing can also be a prudent approach.

=end original

このようなケースのほとんどすべての場合、C<goto> に頼るのではなくて
C<next>、C<last>、C<redo> といった制御フロー機構を使うことが、
ずっとずっと良いアイデアでしょう。
一部のアプリケーションに対しては、C<eval{}> と die() を
catch と throw のペアとして例外処理を行うための賢明なアプローチとして
使うことができるでしょう。

=head2 PODs: Embedded Documentation
X<POD> X<documentation>

(POD: 組み込みドキュメント)

=begin original

Perl has a mechanism for intermixing documentation with source code.
While it's expecting the beginning of a new statement, if the compiler
encounters a line that begins with an equal sign and a word, like this

=end original

Perl は、ソースコードとドキュメントとを混ぜ書きするための仕掛けを
持っています。
新しい文の始まりが期待されているときに、コンパイラは
以下の例のような = 記号で始まっている語を見つけると:

    =head1 Here There Be Pods!

=begin original

Then that text and all remaining text up through and including a line
beginning with C<=cut> will be ignored.  The format of the intervening
text is described in L<perlpod>.

=end original

そのテキストと、C<=cut> で始まる行までの内容を無視します。
間に入るテキストの書式は L<perlpod> で説明されています。

=begin original

This allows you to intermix your source code
and your documentation text freely, as in

=end original

これによって、ソースコードとドキュメントとを以下に示す例のように
自由に混ぜることができるようになります。

    =item snazzle($)

    The snazzle() function will behave in the most spectacular
    form that you can possibly imagine, not even excepting
    cybernetic pyrotechnics.

    =cut back to the compiler, nuff of this pod stuff!

    sub snazzle($) {
	my $thingie = shift;
	.........
    }

=begin original

Note that pod translators should look at only paragraphs beginning
with a pod directive (it makes parsing easier), whereas the compiler
actually knows to look for pod escapes even in the middle of a
paragraph.  This means that the following secret stuff will be
ignored by both the compiler and the translators.

=end original

コンパイラはパラグラフの途中に pod エスケープがあったとしてもそれを
認識できるのに、pod トランスレータは pod 指示子で始まっている
パラグラフのみに注目すべき(これは構文解析を簡単にするためです)で
あるということに注意して下さい。
つまり、以下の例にある "secret stuff" はコンパイラからも、
トランスレータからも無視されるということです。

    $a=3;
    =secret stuff
     warn "Neither POD nor CODE!?"
    =cut back
    print "got $a\n";

=begin original

You probably shouldn't rely upon the C<warn()> being podded out forever.
Not all pod translators are well-behaved in this regard, and perhaps
the compiler will become pickier.

=end original

この例の C<warn()> のようなものが、将来に渡って無視されるということに
依存すべきではありません。
すべての pod トランスレータがそのように振る舞うわけではありませんし、
コンパイラは将来これを無視しないようになるかもしれません。

=begin original

One may also use pod directives to quickly comment out a section
of code.

=end original

pod 指示子を、コードの一部を手っ取り早くコメントアウトするために
使うこともできます。

=head2 Plain Old Comments (Not!)
X<comment> X<line> X<#> X<preprocessor> X<eval>

=begin original

Perl can process line directives, much like the C preprocessor.  Using
this, one can control Perl's idea of filenames and line numbers in
error or warning messages (especially for strings that are processed
with C<eval()>).  The syntax for this mechanism is the same as for most
C preprocessors: it matches the regular expression

=end original

C のプリプロセッサと同じように、Perl は行指示子を処理できます。
これを使うことによって、エラーメッセージや警告メッセージにある
ファイル名や行番号を制御することができます
(特に、C<eval()> で処理される文字列のために)。
この仕組みの構文は C のプリプロセッサとほとんど同じで、正規表現:

    # example: '# line 42 "new_filename.plx"'
    /^\#   \s*
      line \s+ (\d+)   \s*
      (?:\s("?)([^"]+)\2)? \s*
     $/x

=begin original

with C<$1> being the line number for the next line, and C<$3> being
the optional filename (specified with or without quotes).

=end original

にマッチしたものの C<$1> が次の行の行番号となり、省略することもできる
C<$3> は(クォートありかなしで指定された)ファイル名となります。

=begin original

There is a fairly obvious gotcha included with the line directive:
Debuggers and profilers will only show the last source line to appear
at a particular line number in a given file.  Care should be taken not
to cause line number collisions in code you'd like to debug later.

=end original

行指示子にはかなり明らかな技があります。
デバッガとプロファイラは、与えられたファイルの特定の行番号に対して現れた
最新のソース行のみを表示します。
あとでデバッグしたいコードでは行番号の衝突が起きないように注意するべきです。

=begin original

Here are some examples that you should be able to type into your command
shell:

=end original

コマンドシェルでタイプすることのできる例をいくつか挙げます:

    % perl
    # line 200 "bzzzt"
    # the `#' on the previous line must be the first char on line
    die 'foo';
    __END__
    foo at bzzzt line 201.

    % perl
    # line 200 "bzzzt"
    eval qq[\n#line 2001 ""\ndie 'foo']; print $@;
    __END__
    foo at - line 2001.

    % perl
    eval qq[\n#line 200 "foo bar"\ndie 'foo']; print $@;
    __END__
    foo at foo bar line 200.

    % perl
    # line 345 "goop"
    eval "\n#line " . __LINE__ . ' "' . __FILE__ ."\"\ndie 'foo'";
    print $@;
    __END__
    foo at goop line 345.

=begin meta

Created: KIMURA Koichi
Updated: Kentaro Shirakata <argrath@ub32.org>

=end meta

=cut
